{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 OpenSans;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 This year's theme is 'Data and You.' We're looking to have conversations on data that move us toward the future we want to see. What does the future of personal data and the internet as a global public resource look like a year from now? Five years from now? Ten years from now? \
\

\b Greenpeace Activist Dashboard: Show the world your impact
\b0 \
\

\b What will happen?\

\b0 In this hands-on session, we invite you to tell us everything you wish you could track about your participation in civic life. Using participatory methodologies, we will explore showing the world, or just yourself, the impact you have on every day issues - like ocean cleanup, air pollution or livestock agriculture. We will talk about using big data sets to show how things aren\'92t as bad as we think, and we invite you to help us design a way to visualize individual and global impact. We\'92ll use this session to have ideas and design user journeys and potential features for the free.\
\

\b What is the goal or outcome of your session?\

\b0 At Greenpeace, we\'92re starting to think about how we can help activists show their work. Activism happens in the real world. People take to the streets and line up at city halls to demand change. Lawyers and lobbyists \'96 not just corporate ones \'96 donate their time and energy fighting for better policies. People, like you and me, show up to events (like Mozfest!) and meet people, collaborate and strive to make the world a better place. \
\
Greenpeace is an organization that supports and aims to enable personal activism. We strive to ensure that activism is rewarded not just by winning campaigns, but by witnessing and paying tribute to those who do the work. We hope this session will provide insight to what real world activists need from an engagement platform.
\b \
\
After the festival, how will you and your participants take the learning and activities forward?\

\b0 Data is scary. Just think of all the ways it can be used against you. Being transparent with your data is 100% against all the privacy advice you\'92ve ever received. But wait, is there data we *should* share? Is there data we could be proud off? Can we use data to change the world? What are the requirements for storing this data? What kind of data is it in the first place?
\b \

\b0 \
Starting at the festival, we\'92ll narrow the Big Data Conversation to activism data specifically. Together we\'92ll explore and after the festival, we\'92ll invite interested parties to keep the conversation alive and working with us on the free and open source Greenpeace project Planet 4.\

\b \
How will you deal with varying numbers of participants in your session? What if 30 participants attend? What if there are 3?\
\

\b0 In any case, we\'92ll give a tiny bit of context - no sage on the stage, just a quick intro to the platform Greenpeace is building and how we want to change online and real world participation in the fight for the planet.\
\
Then, if there are 3, we\'92ll have an intimate conversation and drawing session centered around how the participants define \'93activism\'94. If there are 13, 33 or 133, we\'92ll run an exercise to gather potential ideas and categorize them. Then we\'92ll break into groups and focus on making paper prototypes and visualizing ideas.
\b \
\
\'97\'97\
\

\b0 Activists ourselves, Greenpeacers want to help people create change, and we\'92re thinking about how we can use data to support them. We want to move past the petition and change the way people think about impact. As fierce advocates for not just the environment, but also for peace, this is an organization that believes in the right to privacy. It\'92s also an organization that believes in the power of the open web.}