{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 OpenSans;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Hi! I\'92m Laura Hilliger, I work for Mozilla, and a big part of what I do is help people, no matter what their actual technical skill level is, teach the web. We MUST teach the web.\
\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 I like to Teach the Web. I\'92ve been walking the line between education and technology my entire career, having found an affinity for playing with computers and code and messing around with various types of software at a pretty early age. I remember falling in love with the Web the first time it took 22 minutes to log on through a modem that sounded like nails on a chalkboard. I\'92ve loved it ever since, through all it\'92s phases, and I\'92ve spent a lot of time understanding why I feel the way I feel about it. It\'92s because the Web is an ecosystem of knowledge \'96 it has the power to connect all of us, to help us find our kindred spirits, to change the world. It can do all of those things, if we have the basic skills we need to explore that ecosystem and exchange ideas, stories, truths with one another. \
\
I love to teach the web, which is why I love working with Mozilla. You know Mozilla as the makers of Firefox, but Really, Mozilla is a community of people. Mozillians are all over the world working to teach the web. And I don\'92t just mean formally to students, but to each other, to their families, to their friends, in their every day lives. Mozillians are people who know that the Web is built to be interoperable, knowable and that it belongs to us. All of us. And Mozillians teach the web to keep it that way.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
You see web literacy isn\'92t just about technical skills, technical skills can be learned on your own through tinkering and play. Web Literacy is about active citizenship in the digital age. \
\
What I mean by teach the web is embrace and spread the ethos of open culture. Openness is about transparency, decentralization, and remix ability, it\'92s also about allowing yourself to have ideas and to play with them, allow others to play with them. These are concepts that you, as an educator,  can start baking into your very practice. \
\
The mechanics of the web allow for a riff and remix culture, so too should the mechanics of education. I think remix is a natural state of being, and we need to teach people how they should present their work so that others can riff off of ideas and participate or contribute to that work. We have a place that makes it easy, and it\'92s in the ecosystem that is the web. \
\
As Gardner said The Web isn\'92t just a technical platform where we store bits and bytes. It is a manifestation of human knowledge or even the human experience, the good AND the bad. \
\
And if you believe in the remarkable ability of the human brain to invent and innovate and shape ideas (how could you not?), then the web is a place to share and collaborate on ideas to solve the types of global problems we face now and in the future. So we have to teach the web. We have to show people how to contribute, how to work together, how to MAKE, BUILD, CREATE, PLAY, FAIL and read, write and participate in our knowledge network.}