{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 OpenSans;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 CHRIS:\
Hi everyone! Thanks so much for having us, it\'92s really a pleasure to take part in Connected Educator Month and to have this opportunity to teach the web and invite you all to teach the web along with us. \
\
We\'92d like to give a special welcome to the educators joining us from throughout the Educator Innovator Network. For those of you who are unfamiliar with Educator Innovator, it  provides an online \'93meet up\'94  for those who are re-imagining learning. Educator Innovator is both a blog and a growing network of educators, partners, and supporters. If we want to educate a generation of young people to be innovators \'97 to create, build, design, and use their talents to improve their world \'97 we need to value the creative capacity in the mentors and teachers who support them. Subscribe to the Educator Innovator blog (blog.nwp.org/educatorinnovator) to learn more.\
\
I also mentioned Connected Educator Month a few seconds ago\'85 The idea behind Connected Educator Month is to provide educators with a range of opportunities to collaborate and learn from one another so that they can thrive in today\'92s connected world. Educator Innovator, the National Writing Project, and the Mozilla Foundation are all proud to be partners in the Connected Educator initiative of the Office of Educational Technology at the US Department of Education. Check out the Educator Innovator calendar for more Connected Educator month activities. And tweet during this webinar to #ce13 to get your thoughts into the bigger stream.\
\
We\'92ve been working with the National Writing Project for a little over a year now, and through this network we\'92ve learned so much and met so many wonderful people. It\'92s truly a pleasure to be involved in the Educator Innovator series, so thank you!\
\
Chris Lawrence. [Chris gives an intro]\
\
LAURA:\
My name is Laura Hilliger and I like to Teach the Web. I\'92ve been walking the line between education and technology my entire career, having found an affinity for playing with computers and code and messing around with various types of software at a pretty early age. I remember falling in love with the Web the first time it took 22 minutes to log on through a modem that sounded like nails on a chalkboard. I\'92ve loved it ever since, through all it\'92s phases, and I\'92ve spent a lot of time understanding why I feel the way I feel about it. It\'92s because the Web is an ecosystem of knowledge \'96 it has the power to connect all of us, to help us find our kindred spirits, to change the world. It can do all of those things, if we have the basic skills we need to explore that ecosystem and exchange ideas, stories, truths with one another. \
\
I love to teach the web, which is why I love working with Mozilla. Yes, Mozilla makes Firefox\'85\
\
Really, Mozilla is a community of people. Mozillians are all over the world working to teach the web. And I don\'92t just mean formally to students, but to each other, to their families, to their friends, in their every day lives. Mozillians are people who know that the Web is built to be interoperable, knowable and that it belongs to us. All of us. And Mozillians teach the web to keep it that way.\
Mozilla is a non-profit. Our mission is to help people understand what all of this means, and we have a set of principles that we believe are critical for the continued health of the Internet.\
\
By the way, these slides are located at http://mzl.la/oct15-2013-webinar, and the links are live, so you can return to this presentation and explore the Manifesto or other resources whenever you like.\
\
So\'85principle number 5 is, for me, where Teach the Web comes in. Individuals must have the ability to shape their own experiences on the Internet. To me, that means that individuals need to have the competencies and skills that allow them to read AND write the web, to  participate in global discussions, to think critically about what they find there. It\'92s about literacy, isn\'92t it?\
\
At Webmaker, we teach the web through making. We try to meet learners where they are by zeroing in on individual interests and helping folks make the things they want to make. We believe in Making as Learning and that the best way to learn new skills is by doing something relevant to each learner and doing that something together. Like the National Writing Project, we believe in connected learning, constructivism and other progressive pedagogies.   \
\
At Mozilla, we\'92re trying to help bridge the gap between technologists and educators by helping both groups have a conversation about teaching and learning the web. We\'92re trying to get all of these people who care about the web from different perspectives talking together to improve both our pedagogy around the web as well as the web itself.\
\
To help these groups mingle, we\'92ve been creating some open educational resources that are designed to be remixed. We, the entire community, are co-creating digital and web literacy curriculum together, and exploring the new definition of Literacy and the perceived boundaries of technology. We\'92re all learning about learning in a world where technology changes every five minutes and what we used to know about teaching and learning may no longer be relevant. \
\
Part of that learning about learning happens in the real world. We believe in blended learning, and encourage others to get together both online and off to play with the Web, make things, collaborate and share. We have learning resources for both online and offline workshops or gatherings, and we always encourage sharing your offline experiences with the greater online community. In this way, we never stop learning from one another. \
\
Because it\'92s so much fun to get together with people who like to learn, we encourage and support people who want to organize events in their local communities. From the kid who invites a couple of friends over to build a website to the people who run hack jams or the organizations that set up a sort of learning buffet for the entire community, the community is finding new and exciting ways to teach the web and share web culture.\
\
CHRIS:\
One of our most successful examples of web culture bleeding into the real world (and vice versa) are the Hive Learning Networks. Hives are networks of like-minded organizations in specific cities that collaborate to offer a wide range of learning experiences to their communities. Most often, the organizations are informal learning institutions like museums or community centers, but the diversity in those types of organizations is wide ranging. Hive NYC, for example, includes everything from internationally known museums to neighborhood community centers.\
\
Hive Learning Network organizations share resources to spread learning and literacy to the cities where they exist. It\'92s through collaboration and open conversation that Hives are able to secure funding to bring a variety of innovative learning experiences to their communities. Mozilla has the honor of stewarding Hive Learning Networks in New York, Chicago, Toronto and Pittsburg, and we\'92re helping budding networks in Athens, San Francisco, various cities in India, and elsewhere grow a make impact in their local cities.\
\
Webmaker is the overarching initiative for the work we do, that we\'92ve been talking about for the last several minutes. It\'92s very difficult to cover the breadth of stuff that we do here at Mozilla Webmaker in such a short amount of time, especially since I want to show you the tools we\'92ve been making to help people learn and teach the web through making. So I\'92ll just remind you, you can access these slides at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://mzl.la/oct15-2013-webinar"}}{\fldrslt http://mzl.la/oct15-2013-webinar}}\
\
LAURA:\
I\'92m not sure where this statement came from, but it serves as a really good segway into me saying\'85.Speaking of code\'85\
\
Today, I wanted to show you a few tools that you can use (freely of course) to help you teach the web while you\'92re teaching other things \'96 any other things. You see, I believe that the web can be taught alongside of any other subject. I also think it\'92s important that we start to teach the basic building blocks of the Web, at least so that learners can mess around with the Web and so that they can use their hacking abilities to be expressive on the Web.\
\
We have three tools, and I\'92m going to quickly show you each one. BUT, you should go and play with them sometime when you have a few moments to be creative. Then share whatever you make!\
\
The first is the XRay Goggles\'85lego, building blocks, etc\
I feel like the Goggles are a good first step into the power that we have to be more than users of the web, and instead makers of the web. We can rearrange the basic building blocks and explore the web critically, we can use this tool to rewrite what others have written. \
\
And when we feel comfortable changing the web that exists, we can learn more to write a new web.\
\
Here we have a webpage about animals. This page was created by the London Zoo and is a remixable Thimble project designed to teach kids about a few endangered species. If I hit the Remix button, the page and how it was built, loads into Thimble, a browser based editor\'85On the left\'85.\
\
We know that the Web is not about code. And we know that understanding a little bit of code is not enough, which is why we, as a community, have been working on creating a web and learning standard we\'92re calling the Web Literacy Standard. The idea is to try and define the competencies and skill that make up literacy today. And to design the standard in a way that is flexible enough that as technology advances, the standard still makes some sort of sense. We need to understand computers, true, but we also need to understand ourselves and each other. These lessons aren\'92t new ones, but they are ones that take on different meaning because of the advancement of technology. What does it mean to be educated in the 21st Century? \
\
The third tool is designed to further explore critical thought, commentary and participation in the digital age. It kind of plays off the idea that we don\'92t just have to consume media, we can create it, hack it, change it and change its meaning. It\'92s also one of the coolest tools ever, and I\'92m not at all bias\'85\
\
Popcorn Maker allows you to pull the Web itself into video. You can use it to tell a story, explore or comment on an issue. There are a lot of great examples of Popcorn Makes that folks have made, and I encourage you to go to Webmaker.org and explore what people are doing. This piece, by the radio rookies, has helped me explain the power of Popcorn Maker for education so many times I\'92ve lost count. \
\
This piece was put together by a group of kids in New York. Let\'92s see\'85do we have time to watch it? \
\
Again, I can hit the remix button and see how this was built\'85\
\
CHRIS:\
It\'92s not just about spreading tools that allow you to look inside the web and what\'92s on it, we\'92re part of a movement, a movement that I\'92m very pleased you all are a part of as well.  Next week, we\'92ll be in London for the annual Mozilla Festival, Mozilla\'92s largest public event. For three days, we\'92ll learn, make, share, break, fail and learn some more, together. We\'92ll continue this work, pushing the future of education and technology by making and sharing and being champions of open culture. I included a quick promo from last year\'92s festival\'85\
\
So in closing, the Digital World is gigantic, and we\'92re a small, but growing community. We\'92re passionate, idealistic, friendly and silly. We\'92re sharing everything we do through the #teachtheweb hashtag and @mozteach or @webmaker twitter accounts. And we invite you all to get involved, join the Webmaker community, and help us teach the web.\
\
Now\'85do we have time for questions? \
\
Badges! CODE: eweb113\
visit this page <http://badges.connectededucators.org/> \
}