{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 OpenSans;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\sa158\pardirnatural\qj

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \'93You\'92re more talented than you know, so how about you help us #teachtheweb?\'94\
Lots of us in the tech industry work on holidays. We don\'92t do it for our careers or jobs or bosses, we do it for our families \'96 we clear caches, reinstall browsers, update websites, fix their \'93broken\'94 computers. We \'96 the designers, developers, webby nerds who can attach images to emails problem free \'96 are actually the minority. We \'96 the makers and creators of digital things \'96 are more talented than we think, and it\'92s time to put those talents to use by making the world a better place. Join Laura Hilliger from Mozilla to talk about why we need to teach the web, why the idea of \'93digital native\'94 is BS and how spreading open values is impacting culture and society.\
idea would be a presentation of what Mozilla is doing in-between the fields of education and technology and why. I\'92d definitely include some LOL cats, and funny mashups, but the heart of the conversation is around the fact that formal learning institutions are sending folks into the world without the skills they need to participate in digital society and the idea \'93digital native\'94 is a complete falsity. It\'92s about the social impact of the web and the cultural impact that openness has.\
==============================================================\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 There are always people and entities who resist change. Folks who think that if they refuse to learn, innovation will be stopped. Folks who boycott the new. And there are plenty of people who are actively boycotting our \
\
Educators do not define literacy as just the ability to read and write - both of those things are incredibly useless if you can\'92t think. Literacy is the ability to read and write and think critically about what you read and write. We are reading and writing on the web, hopefully all of you are thinking critically about what you read and write online. And while the dictionary\'92s definition of literacy is simply \'93the ability to read and write\'94, most people can\'92t even do that with the Web.\
\
But what about Facebook status updates and Tumblr and Twitter and Wordpress and all these ways that people can read and write on the web without being able to program, Laura? Gee, thanks for asking. The truth is people who are sharing knowledge using those tools are kicking ass, but most people aren\'92t really \
\
And Mozillians teach the web to keep it that way.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\sa158\pardirnatural\qj
\cf0 But I didn\'92t really understand that connection until I went on this silly quest to earn a Masters in Media and Education. I didn\'92t care about the credential, I just wanted to understand why I liked teaching so much (and, hey, the credential is worth something right?). What happened was I learned about learning, and knowledge and how our brains develop.\
http://www.theguardian.com/business/2014/jan/20/oxfam-85-richest-people-half-of-the-world\
Digital Natives PBS idea channel: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9WVKBAqjHiE\
Structural Crisis owning ideas vs \
Culture, Mechanics, Citizenship\
Web Literacy\
#Teachtheweb\
\
Can you name an Internet meme? Do you know what Etherpad  or IRC is? Have you ever updated a wiki? Do you use Internet Explorer? If you said yes to any of the first three questions and/or no to the last, you\'92re a minority. Although a fairly large percentage of the world is online, most people only consume the content WE make \'96\'a0and I don\'92t know about you, but I want to see what other people are up to.\
The first thing I want to do is see what you guys know about the Web. If you might indulge me in a little exercise and stand up? I\'92ll ask a question and if for you, the answer is \'93yes\'94 just sit down. This won\'92t take long. \
1. Have you ever updated a wiki?\
2. Do you know what IRC is?\
3. How about Etherpad?\
4. Can you name an Internet meme?\
5. Do you use Internet Explorer as your 1
\fs16 \super st
\fs24 \nosupersub  choice browser?}