{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 OpenSans;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Introduction\
Observing to connect, mindfulness\
Participatory definition\
\
Trust at the Center of participation\
We all want to be human, I over compensate to make people comfy\
We are groomed\
\
Culture\
Be kind\
Safe spaces empower people\
\
Inside open communities\
Outside FOSS\
\
Modeling Behaviors\
Opening the door for people\
\
http://www.laurahilliger.com/leadership/friendly-tips-for-keeping-your-contributors/\
\
"Designing for Participation" is a way to provide\'a0\'a0people with insights to your project. Documenting how you intend to make decisions, which communication channels you\'92ll use and how people can get in touch with you are\'a0the first steps in designing for participation. Working openly, being transparent, and using technologies that support collaboration, invite participation. These things provide context so that interested people can get up to\'a0speed and start participating in your project.\
\
But there's more. There are things that happen behind the scenes of any open project that help contributors gain trust, take ownership and begin to help you distribute leadership to the edges of a community.\
\
This session will look at behaviors that spur cultural shifts. Drawing on her experience bringing open practices to Greenpeace International, Laura will examine the social and cultural norms that make open implementation more or less difficult.
\f1\i0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab920
\cf0 \
Participatory Practices to Build Trust\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl283\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf2 Hi, my name is Laura Hilliger. I am a founding member of the We Are Open Cooperative and I work with Greenpeace International. Both my coop and my gig at Greenpeace is about spreading the beliefs, processes and culture of open. I also spent over five years working at Mozilla where I helped spread web literacy \'96 the social and technical skills and competencies that make working openly possible.\
\
And while I truly believe in the core of open practices \'96 decentralizing power, 100% transparency, allowing for remixabilty \'96 I also believe that this way of working and being is highly nuanced and utterly dependent on the collective consciousness, rather than individual understandings of \'93open\'94.\
\
So today, I\'92m going to talk a little about the nuances I\'92ve seen in bringing open practices to closed or more traditional communities, and then I\'92m going to invite you to openly reflect or ask questions. \
\
SLIDE\
\
I am constantly learning about participation. I don\'92t mean that I\'92m studying participation or collaboration as an academic, I\'92m not actually collecting data on how or why people start on a pathway towards an open and participatory viewpoint, I\'92m saying that as a human being, I am learning what it means to participate. In life. In work. In relationships. In connection. In being human.\
\
I actively observe the participation of others and my own internal dialog. My peers, my colleagues, my audience \'96 how their behaviors and expressions make me feel. I use this as a base to understand how my behaviors affect other people and how I can better connect. \
\
What we say and do in a social space changes the fabric of that social space. They way we interact changes the way others interact with us. Knowing ourselves helps us develop not only relationships, but the skills and competencies we need to improve our lives. \
\
Our physical and mental well being is inextricably linked to our ability to connect with people.\
\
If you yell at people they are likely to yell back. If you are calm, people around you will be calmer. If you laugh or smile, endorphins are released in your brain as well as in other people\'92s brains. How we treat each other matters.\
\
SLIDE\
\
 I explain "participatory" as the difference between a lecture and a conversation. It's the difference between passive and active. Centering on people\'92s interests and facilitating connections to help people produce something is valuable to their personal and professional development. Humans live for connection, we physically need it.\
\
So people who believe in open strive to design projects to be participatory and collaborative by creating structures where roles are shifted.\
\
There are many simple techniques that help people have agency. My top 3 are super simple, yet somehow lacking in our day to day work. \
\
Community Calls. Here\'92s a guide, this is long term trust building.\
Individual outreach. It\'92s so easy to say please and thank you. \
Listening. Amazing what you hear if you learn to listen well.\
\
SLIDE\
\
Emotion is influenced by surroundings and norms, so what keeps us from truly participating 100% of the time is fear and the social and cultural norms we\'92ve been taught are rules in civil discourse and social behavior. We\'92ve been taught that that the speaker is notable, that the CEO has vision, that the teacher is the expert, that the police maintain control, that respect means being quiet and letting others have the floor. We\'92ve been taught that gendered bathrooms is \'93right\'94.\
\
But all of that is a collective perception that has roots.\
\
With the invention of the web, we\'92re much quicker to learn histories and contexts, relationships and influences that we didn\'92t know about before. Our ability to connect, allows us to talk about social norms and push back at common public perceptions. \
\
This is beginning to bleed into the real world in fascinating ways. We\'92ve been taught a certain degree of distrust, but much of the open community is adopting views around the way we interact with each other. There are communities who are putting trust at the center of how they operate.\
\
Views like \'93Everyone\'92s voice matters\'94 or \'93There are no stupid questions\'94. Simple, humanistic points of view that are directly related to how we as human beings participate in the world and govern our lives.\
\
In business, this is changing entire power structures and dynamics.\
\
SLIDE\
\
I think we all want to be honest and open. I think we all need accolades and encouragement, and I think that we all feel like we have to prove to others that we are capable. But we convince ourselves that we\'92ll be damaged if we live up to those values. We are afraid that someone else will receive accolades that were supposed to be ours. We become discouraged and despondent because we allow ourselves to fester with envy and fear. \
\
We humans are afraid to just be ourselves.\
\
Through my work with We Are Open and Greenpeace, I aim to encourage not only the Open Source community, but the Activist community to try out loud. Come up with a new way to start a conversation, or a new way to implement design constraints, or a new way to get people to share ideas, and then try it. Who cares if you fail? Why not learn something new today.\
\
The way you participate in the world says something about your values. The way your organizations run meetings and events say something about how they view your and your peers contributions. If you\'92re working at an organization that is open or trying to be open, you and your colleagues should feel comfortable expressing your opinion, even when your opinion is quite obviously not widely shared. Being bold, having a voice, and helping other people have a voice creates communities of trust.\
\
SLIDE\
\
Putting everyone on the same level and giving everyone agency and promoting open collaboration is a terrifying prospect, especially in business. It\'92s a pretty unnatural feeling. And it\'92s a pretty impossible feeling to feel, all the time, that we are worthy of having voice. \
\
We are groomed to understand hierarchies, authorities and seniorities. From the moment we, as toddlers, start testing the resolve of our parents, we start to learn that the world doesn\'92t revolve around our individual selves and we begin to perceive that someone else in any given situation has more power than we do. \
\
We are told what we\'92re not capable, and for whatever reason, we believe what we\'92re told. Sometimes, we assume that someone else has more information, and sometimes they do, but sometimes the greater good is something we can influence, and we choose not to because, again, we\'92re afraid.\
\
Let\'92s be very clear that openness, collaboration and respect for ourselves does not mean filterless, controlling and arrogant. It\'92s about conditioning our emotional intelligence. \
\
SLIDE\
\
 If we study communities, we can identify the prevailing mindsets and values that influence a group's way of being. By observing the ways people share both physical and digital spaces we can determine the practices that make up a culture, and understanding these practices and gently implementing open techniques and attitudes will improve efficiency, productivity, creativity and innovation. That is a culture shift towards open.\
\
SLIDE\
\
We can and should give people the agency to take control. We should encourage people to share their perspectives so that we can instigate change, be better people. We can encourage these things on an individual or on a large scale, it's all about attitude. It\'92s so easy to give agency \'96 you simply say \'93What do you think\'94 or send a two sentence email that offers a human connection. Hey Thanks for showing up. It\'92s so simple, but it means something. \
\
Humans are built for connection. The same neural circuits process physical pain AND social pain. That means that feeling isolated or disconnected can be just as painful as getting hit by a bus.\
\
Inviting people to participate with you, personally, with the work generally, helps lay the ground work for a participatory project.\
\
SLIDE\
\
We need to design spaces, digitally and physically, that honor participants. These spaces must respect their intellect, their skills and their time. If we place making, feedback and learning at the center, we can focus on the desires and goals of the very people we seek to honor. \
\
We ask ourselves every step of the way, is this valuable for people? Is it fun? How is their contribution beneficial to them? This is how we can start to breed leadership competencies. Create a situation where people feel comfortable talking control.\
\
Learning how participatory design can empower community is something I started to learn about in the open source community. Open source has a bunch of passionate people who believe that the Web could aid in making the world a better place. They were people who loved the Web I loved. Not a specific website or application, but the entire idea that the Web connects us and allows us to explore key problems together. What I found was a community. I found people who pushed at things in my belief system. Things that had always felt a little wrong, but I could never pinpoint why. I was challenged, engaged - people seemed to care what I thought, even though I didn\'92t know them.\
\
SLIDE\
\
I started contributing to open source. I was so fascinated by the distributed ownership and responsibility, so moved by the idea that connecting could make our world better, so excited that Mozilla, which is where I became involved in open, was working to make sure the internet stays open, participatory, decentralized and public a 100 years from now, that I just got addicted. I found collaborators. \
\
At Mozilla, it was easy to give people agency.  If you are an ecosystem that makes open collaboration the norm instead of the fun thing you get to do every once in a while, you reap the rewards of what that collaboration brings. There are plenty of examples where open collaboration is the norm in Open Source.\
\
SLIDE\
\
But what about outside of FOSS? Providing agency and leading the way towards more open modes of working and being is at the heart of all the things I work on at Greenpeace.\
\
It is the reason I urge colleagues to publish  links to every document, image, bug and product. It\'92s also the reason I serve as a model by stating my case, regardless of perceived power dynamics.\
\
I organize my own work around the idea that other people can participate. I believe that together we are smarter. Participation is key for any organization looking to change the world, so getting people to trust in best intentions again is part of making the world a better place.\
\
Shifting the behaviors and mindsets of \'93everyone\'94, which, by the way is every non-profits target audience, means that we need the input and understanding of \'93everyone\'94. We have to stop pretending like we can save the planet without the \'93masses\'94. \
\
I\'92ve learned that you have to help people understand why their participation is necessary and create systems that make participation easy. You have to help people understand what you\'92re working on, and you have to respect peoples contributions. Most importantly, you have to model the behaviors you want to see in the world.\
SLIDE\
\
The We Are Open Coop is grounded in the idea that if we model the behaviors we want to see,  we will influence the behaviors of others. We established ourselves as a coop because we want to create an equitable business in which all the members benefit. Membership is open, we spread open values, we have open communication channels. All of this is an effort to create equitable, humanistic work environments. \
\
Anyone here have a micromanaging boss? Yeah, not necessary right? \
\
Your behaviors reflect your values. This is true for our personal lives and our professional lives, wherein our behaviors are often clouded by our own perceptions of self, our cultural and social backgrounds, our assumptions of what the world wants from us. \
\
SLIDE\
\
I think designing and using participatory methods is mostly about opening the door for people. Help people see what it means to have agency. We're successful if we take initiative. It doesn't matter if we fail, it's about believing that we have agency. \
\
END}