{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red16\green60\blue192;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c6667\c33333\c80000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Title: High Functioning Teams
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0 \cf2 Type: instructor led workshop
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0 \cf2 Abstract: If you want to have a high functioning team, you have to understand and interact with a variety of personality types. Managing group and team dynamics is an essential part of every job. In this fun and participatory lab, we\'92ll explore and get to know 8 common types of team members. We\'92ll discuss their merits and think about how our own emotional awareness can help us navigate common conflicts and problems. 
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0 \cf2 Open leaders take the time to encourage, help, and inspire people around them. Helping people \'a0grow (and growing because of them) are ways to ensure constant innovation and collective improvement. 
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0 \cf2 1 sentence: High functioning teams use flexible leadership models and have emotionally intelligent team members. This lab will pick apart emotional awareness and help participants understand how they influence their surroundings.
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0 \cf2 Notes:
\f1 \

\f0 High Functioning Teams
\f1 \

\f0 Personality types role play
\f1 \

\f0 Wer bin ich
\f1 \

\f0 Participatory workshop, boston may 2 - 4
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0 \cf2 Birds of a feather on imposter syndrome
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://rh2017.smarteventscloud.com/portal/cfp/loadExisting.ww?ID=102316"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 https://rh2017.smarteventscloud.com/portal/cfp/loadExisting.ww?ID=102316}}\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://redhat.slides.com/events/2017-red-hat-summit-submission-guide#/6"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 http://redhat.slides.com/events/2017-red-hat-summit-submission-guide#/6}}\
}