{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf760
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid202\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid203\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid302\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid303\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid402\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid403\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid502\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid503\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid602\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid603\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid701\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid702\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid703\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid8}
{\list\listtemplateid9\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid801\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid9}
{\list\listtemplateid10\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid901\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid902\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid903\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid10}
{\list\listtemplateid11\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1001\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1002\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid11}
{\list\listtemplateid12\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid12}
{\list\listtemplateid13\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1202\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid13}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid9\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid10\listoverridecount0\ls10}{\listoverride\listid11\listoverridecount0\ls11}{\listoverride\listid12\listoverridecount0\ls12}{\listoverride\listid13\listoverridecount0\ls13}}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\li432\fi-432\sb240\sa120
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f1\b\fs36 Institute for Open Leadership Application\
\pard\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\sa140

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Authors: Laura Hilliger and Steve Cairns, Greenpeace International\
\pard\pardeftab709\li576\fi-576\sb200\sa120
\ls2\ilvl1\cf0 	
\f1\b\fs32 Cover letter\
\pard\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\sa140

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 To Whom it May Concern:\
We believe we would benefit a great deal from being selected as participants in the Open Policy Network's Institute for Open Leadership. As fellows and contributors to this network, we think openly reflecting on the challenges and successes of open policy implementation for Greenpeace International's Media Library will be beneficial to other organizations who are struggling to get themselves on the right side of the open culture movement.\
Behind the curtain at Steve's over eight years at Greenpeace, he has been a constant voice for implementing open policies within our media asset library. He has worked to find ways to convince our global offices and photographer networks to assign Creative Common Licenses, and has celebrated small wins since the first implementation of a Creative Commons License in 2010. There is still much work to form the \'93perfect\'94 open source media library. In particular, we see a need to create a variety of policies for our complicated asset library and to placate certain editors and photographers who do not yet understand the value of open licenses. \
Steve's team has been negotiating within Greenpeace national and regional offices as these are the entities that provide Greenpeace with content for Greenpeace Media (http://photo.greenpeace.org). We are aware of the need for strategic community support around creating and applying open policies, and so we are hopeful that you will accept our application to attend the Institute for Open Leadership. \
We hope to utilize the Institute as a time to learn more about open policy and licensing, gain support from your experts in the development of a likely complicated strategy for the Greenpeace Media Library. We are looking forward to contributing our experiences working with hundreds of differently minded content creators.\
We are willing and eager to fulfill the responsibilities of this fellowship, but we\'92ll be honest in saying it\'92s the fellowship community that we\'92re most excited about. We know that interacting with the other fellows will provide a number of learning opportunities for us, and we think we have experience and insight to contribute to this conversation. \
In short if you have an open spot for another fellow, we\'92d love the opportunity.\
Sincerely,\
Steve Cairns & Laura Hilliger (on behalf of the Library Team at Greenpeace International)\
\pard\pardeftab709\li576\fi-576\sb200\sa120
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 	
\f1\b\fs32 Resume: Steve Cairns\
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\fi-720\sb140\sa120
\ls3\ilvl2
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f1\b\fs28 Experience\
\pard\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\sa140

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Library Manager at Greenpeace International
\b0   
\i October 2007 \'96 Present (8 years 1 month)
\i0 \
Budget and planning responsibility for a library and media services department tasked to support a global communications strategy across all platforms and campaigns. Development and implementation of practical policy guidelines for acquisition and international distribution of visual media assets, Managing key relationships with internal and external partners /stakeholders in supporting this and other Greenpeace policies. \

\b Broadcast Services Manager Metro Broadcast Ltd
\b0   
\i August 2001 \'96 October 2007 (6 years 3 months)
\i0 \
Recruited by Metro, Soho, a \'a320m t/o television and video facilities company, as Broadcast Services Manager. Full responsibility for the financial and business planning for the company\'92s broadcast sector.\

\b Technical Manager Hammerhead TV Facilities
\b0   
\i October 1995 \'96 August 2001 (5 years 11 months)
\i0 \
Recruited as a general assistant For five years contributed to Hammerhead\'92s successful business growth (\'a33m t/o) Full responsibility for all technical, logistical and crewing requirements.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\fi-720\sb140\sa120
\ls4\ilvl2\cf0 	
\f1\b\fs28 Skills\
\pard\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\sa140

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Before Greenpeace I had 14 years\'92 television and media production experience in pivotal line management roles since first joining the regionally funded, Dundee Media Action as Producer in 1994. There I worked with volunteers to produce environmental, training, charity and social action videos, involving local and national organisations across all sections of the community.  After joining the broadcast sector, along with mainstream TV work, my clients still often included major NGO's,  including Greenpeace, UNICEF, The UK Consumers Association, Shelter and Oxfam. I also continued to support community projects both personally and through my employers. I providing consultancy and production services to government bodies as diverse as the US Department of Defense, ( Road Safety Rap) The UK Prime Ministers Office  (Tony Blairs Video Blog) and The Department of Work And Pensions (The Pensions Crisis -  An exercise in deliberative democracy) \
I've led many complex multi-national collaborations, and co-productions, often between diverse stakeholders with differing needs and expectations. My abilities are not only in hands-on project/programme management, or the day-to-day leadership of permanently established business units, but also in sales and business development. I have a wide range of contacts inside and outside Greenpeace and a range of skills and experience, working with budgets from \'a350 \'96 $500,000 on projects ranging from internet virals and the first "mobisodes" to the infamous Miss World Competition of 2002 which started in Abuja and ended in London. \
\
\pard\pardeftab709\li576\fi-576\sb200\sa120
\ls5\ilvl1\cf0 	
\f1\b\fs32 Open Policy Project: Opening the Greenpeace Media Library\
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\fi-720\sb140\sa120
\ls5\ilvl2
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 	
\f1\b\fs28 Background\
\pard\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\sa140

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 For decades Greenpeace has hired photographers and editors to document our activism and the environmental impacts various companies and initiatives have on our planet.  We've created an extensive library of rights managed, professional images and videos spanning 5 decades and 5 continents.  Our National Regional Offices (NROs) hire local photographers to provide content for campaigns and individual actions, and  those photographers sign a licensing agreement that in effect splits the copyright of a photograph fifty-fifty between Greenpeace and the photographer.\
Our current licensing agreement was formulated in 2010. From 2008 to 2010 the Library Team struggled to create policy within that agreement that allowed for Creative Commons Licenses. Now, five years later, we wish to revisit the contracts and agreements with content creators, with stronger more compelling evidence of the need to provide open-source content to drive open campaigning.\
In order to achieve a more open, modern and sustainable policy, we believe we need a multi-pronged approach. We need a strategy that takes into account a highly diverse organization with a highly diverse group of stakeholders.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\fi-720\sb140\sa120
\ls6\ilvl2\cf0 	
\f1\b\fs28 Description of the Project\
\pard\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\sa140

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 We will develop a strategy that includes a scaffolding of open policies that govern the handling of media assets created in collaboration with photographers and NROs. This strategy and its associated assets (such as flexible open policies for individual types of contributions) will serve as exemplars to allies and partners in Greenpeace global networks.\
Additionally, we will use our learning from the Institute for Open Leadership to develop workshops and programs that promote and explain such policies. These events will help inspire our network of content creators to embrace open licenses for their own work. As we move towards being a more open source organization, we aim to use the Greenpeace brand to promote the benefits of open licensing.  A \
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\fi-720\sb140\sa120
\ls7\ilvl2\cf0 	
\f1\b\fs28 Overarching Objectives\
\pard\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\sa140

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Educate, inform and build demand within National Regional Offices for the Creative Commons licensing model to be adopted as the norm rather than the exception with a view to opening the library to the world.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\fi-720\sb140\sa120
\ls8\ilvl2\cf0 	
\f1\b\fs28 Potential Process\
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\fi-360\sl288\slmult1\sa140
\ls9\ilvl0
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \'95	
\f0 Research Case Studies at other organizations to inform the project\
\ls9\ilvl0
\f1 \'95	
\f0 Develop policies suitable for the unique Greenpeace situation, while providing insights applicable in a variety of fields or organizations\
\ls9\ilvl0
\f1 \'95	
\f0 Define specific learning objectives and curriculum for Open License workshops geared towards Greenpeace content creators and editors\
\ls9\ilvl0
\f1 \'95	
\f0 Achieve a steady increase in openly licensed assets from NROs\
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\fi-720\sb140\sa120
\ls10\ilvl2\cf0 	
\f1\b\fs28 Proposed Collaborators\
\pard\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\sa140

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Image Librarians: Esther ten Bokum, Laura Lambardi, Franca Michienzi, Fiona Porteous\
Photo professionals from the Greenpeace network will need to be consulted through the development of this project. We will need their collaboration to open the Greenpeace Library. There are about 40 editors in various National Regional Offices, all of whom have to comply by certain country regulations, they too will need training and support to begin implementing new open policies. We are, however, supported by the International Programme Director, the Global Engagement Director and the Head of Storytelling within Greenpeace International.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li576\fi-576\sb200\sa120
\ls11\ilvl1\cf0 	
\f1\b\fs32 Estimated Budget\
\pard\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\sa140

\f0\i\b0\fs24 \cf0 Budget prepared for one person to attend the workshop, however if there is a possibility we could have more than one place at the workshop, we would like to talk about it. We have not yet prepared a budget for the initiative writ large. This application may be the first 
\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\fi-360\sl288\slmult1\sa140
\ls12\ilvl0
\f1 \cf0 \'95	
\f0 Airfare: \'80700 \'96 \'801000 (Round trip flight from Europe)\
\ls12\ilvl0
\f1 \'95	
\f0 Hotel: \'80700 \'96 \'80900 (6 nights, arriving on the Sunday, leaving on the Saturday)\
\ls12\ilvl0
\f1 \'95	
\f0 Ground Transportation: ca. \'8075 (taxi to and from airport)\
\ls12\ilvl0
\f1 \'95	
\f0 Visa: \'800 (potential attendees hold passports exempt from South African visa requirements)\
\ls12\ilvl0
\f1 \'95	
\f0 Sustenance: \'80180 (\'8030 per Diem)\
\pard\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\sa140

\b \cf0 Total: \'801655 \'96 \'802155
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\li576\fi-576\sb200\sa120
\ls13\ilvl1\cf0 	
\f1\b\fs32 Letter of Support\
\pard\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\sa140

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Dear Friends,\
It might feel a bit strange to have one of the authors writing the letter of support, but I wasn't sure how to encourage Steve Cairns to apply for the Institute for Open Leadership without helping out with the application. After spending 5.5 years working for Mozilla, I've accepted a position at Greenpeace, and I'm in a whole different world. I've come to a community where the practices and processes we in the Open Community hold dear are quite foreign.\
Greenpeace International hired me because of my involvement in Open Culture. The organization is going through change. The organization that Greenpeace wants to be is one that understands and embodies the open ethos. Part of my job is to achieve this, and I believe serving as a bridge between the staff of Greenpeace and the Open Community is going to help me inspire the shift towards open.\
Before my official first day at Greenpeace, I attended a staff meeting in which Steve, the Library Manager and co-applicant, expressed a rather infectious degree of enthusiasm for the idea of being more open with Greenpeace Media assets. \
Several days later, when I found the Institute for Open Leadership, my first instinct was to talk to Mr. Cairns and ask what the plans were for opening up this wonderful database of non-violent direct action, natural and environmental photographs. After speaking with him about the challenges he's facing in this initiative, I wanted to contribute what I could to its success. This library rivals Getty in it's multitude.  This contribution to the commons would be incredible to the millions of people and organizations who would use Greenpeace images more freely.\
I believe Mr. Cairns would greatly benefit from having the support and enthusiasm of the Open Community supporting him in his efforts to open the Greenpeace Media Library. I know there's no better organization in the world to advise and collaborate with Greenpeace on this than Creative Commons, and it would be fantastic to witness Steve and/or his peers and colleagues learning from all of the other fellows invited to this incredible opportunity.\
Thanks for reading, and please feel free to get in touch. I hang out in your IRC channel as "LauraHilliger" or you can email me laura@zythepsary.com\
Sincerely,\
Laura Hilliger\
\
}