{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs20 \cf0 I've never been a conventional person. I've spent my life following my passions and trying to understand what it is that I'm supposed to be doing here on the planet. My background is long and complicated, so the construction of this question is a bit difficult for me. I need design constraints for this question.\
\
My resume and the type of writing I do professionally is less the reason I'm applying for this residency. My professional makeup is still relevant in some form, but I'm looking to extend a creative side that isn't explicitly linked to the writing I do for work.\
\
I've been working in the space between social justice and technology my entire career. For the last year or so I've felt myself struggling to believe. I feel like hope is hidden. The media, the masses, the state of the world \'96 despite the facts that we're living in the most peaceful time, that people are happier now than they've ever been, that infant mortality rates are down, that we\'92re healthier, happier \'96 despite these things, I feel like the work I do has become harder, more complicated and more dangerous. \
\
I\'92ve write for and work with numerous communities online and through my work with open source. The space I\'92ve worked in as allowed me to serve as a bridge between technology and many other kinds of communities. Open communities are the ones that ground me the most. I feel accountable to the greater open community (which includes smaller communities) because it\'92s helped me carve out my identity. My participation in open source helped me understand myself in a way I can\'92t fully explain in an online text area. I am open. I\'92m an advocate for open practices, an expert on participatory methodologies, an idealist who believes that \'93openness\'94 is personal and professional development rolled into a supportive community of crazy innovators. It is lifelong learning, a curiosity and a joy embodied in a diverse and disperse group of people. The open community is welcoming and thus serves as a touchstone for all of the other communities I\'92m a part of. Among the Greenpeace community, the introduction of open practices is creating equity among staff and volunteers. In my local sports club, transparency and decentralization has helped my team advance into the national league. My neighborhood non-profit has adopted an open policy for the shared garden the community built. Helping other people understand open practices is also at the heart of the educational technology co-operative I\'92m a part of.\
\
I want to meet the people who will make me feel like the work I do matters. Maybe I can inspire people I meet in some way. Meeting passionate people, sharing ideas and exploring the space between social change, technology and learning is an excellent use of my time. But I also want to write.\
\
The piece of my identity that feels the strongest yet lacks the practice and attention that I\'92d like to give it, is that of the author. I write constantly, but I\'92ve not taken a serious look at the creative endeavor of writing the way that I feel I should. I have a variety of ideas and half started projects that are personal and profound, but those projects always take a backseat to the non-profit and community driven world I work in. \
\
I\'92m applying for this residency to give myself a space to work on something that is purely creative and to explore what it means to be a writer in a more traditional sense. I want to be around people who have more of a connection to this artistic world and learn from them.\
\
\
The piece of my identity that feels the strongest yet lacks the practice and attention that I\'92d like to give it, is that of the author. I write constantly, but I\'92ve not taken a serious look at the creative endeavor of writing the way that I feel I should. I have a variety of ideas and half started projects that are personal and profound, but those projects always take a backseat to the non-profit and community driven world I work in. \
\
I\'92m applying for this residency to give myself a space to work on something that is purely creative and to explore what it means to be a writer in a more traditional sense. I want to be around people who have more of a connection to this artistic world and learn from them.\
\
I have a half finished novel that I would like to complete, but by November maybe I'll have done that (!?). I also have an idea and a bunch of notes for a non-fiction book that explores the psychology of grief in a narrative form. This one is ... serious. I think it is the type of book that I needed once but never found, and I believe taking myself completely out of my daily context to focus on that is the only way it will ever get started.  \
\
}