{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 OpenSans;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Vid 1 - intro\
\
HI, and welcome to the Maker Party Partner training video series, my name is Laura Hilliger, and I like to Teach the Web. I\'92m the Mozilla Training and Curriculum lead, an educator, a geek, and an advocate for openness and learner-centric methodologies. \
\
Today, I\'92m going to help you understand how Maker Party works and give you some tips that I hope will help you and your organization get the most out of this global campaign.\
\
First, I\'92m going to give you a brief background on Mozilla, including the pedagogies behind Webmaker and Maker Party, with a particular focus on this idea of \'93web literacy\'94 and what it means for Maker Party.\
\
I\'92ll talk about how we can support each other during Maker Party, and I will show you the 4 software tools we\'92ve been working on. \
\
After that, I\'92ll talk about the open educational resources we have at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://Webmaker.org"}}{\fldrslt Webmaker.org}}, what\'92s innovative about the model and how you can use them, remix them and build your own. \
\
Finally, I\'92ll talk a bit about how to facilitate a Maker Party and give you some tips on sharing your organization\'92s story and broadcasting your actions to the global community.\
\
Let\'92s get started!\
\'97End intro vid\'97\
\'97Mozilla bg vid 2\'97\
The Web is an ecosystem of knowledge \'96 it holds the world\'92s information and has the power to connect all of us, to help us find our kindred spirits, to change the world. It can do all of those things, if we have the basic skills we need to explore that ecosystem and exchange ideas, stories, truths with one another. \
\
I love to teach the web, which is why I love working with Mozilla. Yes, Mozilla makes Firefox\'85\
\
Really, Mozilla is a community of people. Mozillians are all over the world working to teach the web. And I don\'92t just mean formally to students, but to each other, to their families, to their friends, in their every day lives. Mozillians are people who know that the Web is built to be interoperable, knowable and that it belongs to us. All of us. And we teach the web to keep it that way.\
\
We are a non-profit. The Mozilla mission is to help people understand what all of this means, and we have a set of principles that we believe are critical for the continued health of the Internet.\
\
One of those principles is the idea that individuals need to have the ability to shape their own experiences on the Internet. To me, that means that individuals need to have the competencies and skills that allow them to read and write the web, to participate in global discussions, to think critically about what they find there. It\'92s about being educated in the 21
\fs16 \super st
\fs24 \nosupersub  Century.\
\
At Mozilla, we\'92re trying to help bridge the gap between technologists and educators by helping both groups have a conversation about teaching and learning the web. We\'92re trying to get all of these people who care about the web from different perspectives talking together to improve both our pedagogy around the web as well as the web itself. \
\
That\'92s part of the reason that we began developing the Web Literacy Map, which underpins the work we do at Webmaker and through campaigns like Maker Party. The Web Literacy Map is a collection of competencies and skills that we believe people need to read, write and participate effectively on the web. They are not just technical skills, they aren\'92t centered around coding or scripting, the competencies and skills included in the Web Literacy Map are about the culture, mechanics and citizenship of the modern age. Don\'92t think of the Web as just a platform or a tool, think about the connection it provides us to each other. \
\
At Webmaker, we teach the web through making. We try to meet learners where they are by zeroing in on individual interests and helping folks make the things they want to make. We believe in Making as Learning and that the best way to learn new skills is by doing something relevant to each learner and doing that something together. Like many of our partners, we believe in connected learning, constructivism and other progressive pedagogies.   \
\
Part of that learning about learning happens in the real world. We believe in blended learning, and encourage others to get together both online and off to play with the Web, make things, collaborate and share. We use Maker Party to  grow connected learning networks around web literacy, digital skills and maker culture. \
\'97End vid 2\'97\
\'97What is maker party vid\'97\
\
So what exactly is a Maker Party? Good question! A Maker Party is an online or offline event that teaches some aspect of Web Literacy and shares the event and outcomes with the world via social media and the Webmaker events platform. \
\
We encourage the use of progressive pedagogies and practical projects to keep learners interested, and we like to see people having FUN. Learning is supposed to be fun, it was never supposed to be a chore. A Maker Party is fun, it is educational and it creates an environment where anyone, youth or adult, can make something, learn and connect.\
\
Through our brand and reach, we inspire a global audience to take action and come together in a 3 month campaign to help learners become makers and gain valuable online and offline skills. We are dedicated to spreading web literacy and we are happy to be working with you to showcase the amazing learning that goes on during Maker Party. We\'92re very eager to make it easy for you to participate in this global movement.\
\
Because it\'92s so much fun to get together with people who like to learn, we encourage and support people who want to organize events in their local communities. From the kid who invites a couple of friends over to build a website to the people who run hack jams or the organizations that set up a sort of learning buffet for the entire community, Maker Parties are finding new and exciting ways to teach the web and share web culture.\
\
One of our most successful examples of web culture bleeding into the real world (and vice versa) are the Hive Learning Networks. Hives are networks of like-minded organizations in specific cities that collaborate to offer a wide range of learning experiences to their communities. Most often, the organizations are informal learning institutions like museums or community centers, but the diversity in those types of organizations is wide ranging. Hive NYC, for example, includes everything from internationally known museums to neighborhood community centers.\
\
In Hive Learning Networks and during Maker Party, our partner organizations work to share resources in an effort to spread learning and literacy. It\'92s through collaboration and open conversation that we are able to secure funding to bring a variety of innovative learning experiences to local communities. Mozilla has the honor of stewarding Hive Learning Networks in New York, Chicago, Toronto and Pittsburg, and we\'92re helping budding networks in Athens, San Francisco, various cities in India, and elsewhere grow a make impact in their local cities.\
\
It\'92s very difficult to cover the breadth of stuff that we do here at Mozilla, or to separate our different initiatives. At the most practical level, Maker Party is about holding up your hand and saying \'93Yes, Web Literacy and Connected Learning are important to me as well!\'94 and then backing up the statement with some sort of action that shows that \'96 be it an event or the development of open educational resources or tools that support teaching and learning the web. \
\
\'97Tools vid\'97\
Now I\'92ll show you a few tools that you can use (freely of course) to help you teach the web while you\'92re teaching other things. You see, I believe that the web can be taught alongside of any other subject. I also think it\'92s important that we start to teach the basic building blocks of the Web, at least so that learners can mess around with the Web and so that they can use their hacking abilities to be expressive.\
\
We have four tools, and I\'92m going to quickly show you each one. BUT, you should go and play with them sometime when you have a few moments to be creative. Then share whatever you make! You can use the #MakerParty hashtag or #TeachTheWeb on Twitter\
\
The first is the XRay Goggles which reveal the simple structure of the web. The web is like legos, HTML are the basic building blocks, and anyoe can learn to rearrange those blocks into something new.\
\
The Goggles are a good first step into the power that we have to be more than users of the web, and instead makers of the web. We can rearrange the basic building blocks and explore the web critically, we can use this tool to rewrite what others have written. \
\
And when we feel comfortable changing the web that exists, we can learn more to write a new web.\
\
I\'92m going to walk you through HTML at a very basic level\'85\
\
Any more complicated webpage are just built on top of those elements.\
\
For example, here we have a webpage about animals. This page was created by the London Zoo and is a remixable Thimble project designed to teach kids about a few endangered species. If I hit the Remix button, the page and how it was built, loads into Thimble, a browser based editor\'85On the left\'85.\
\
We know that the Web is not about code. And we know that understanding a little bit of code is not enough, webmaking is about expression, and learning a little bit of code empowers people to be expressive.\
\
The third tool is designed to mess with media on the web. It can help you explore critical thought, commentary and participation in the digital age. It kind of plays off the idea that we don\'92t just have to consume media, we can create it, hack it, change it and change its meaning. It\'92s also one of the coolest tools ever, and I\'92m not at all bias\'85\
\
Popcorn Maker allows you to pull the Web itself into video. You can use it to tell a story, explore or comment on an issue. There are a lot of great examples of Popcorn Makes that folks have made, and I encourage you to go to Webmaker.org and explore what people are doing. This piece, by the radio rookies, has helped me explain the power of Popcorn Maker for education so many times I\'92ve lost count. \
\
This piece was put together by a group of kids in New York. Let\'92s take a look at how it was built\'85\
\
You can see that Popcorn Maker is a powerful tool when you\'92re thinking about web literacies as well as critical literacies, digital literacies, communication literacies and all the other literacies.\
\
Our newest tool is in active development. It\'92s called Appmaker. This tool is being built to eliminate the need for expert programming knowledge in the design and development of mobile apps. \
\
Appmaker consists of Bricks, which hold specific kinds of functionality. We can place different kinds of bricks on the canvas, and they can send signals across a broadcast channel to other bricks. \
\
We\'92re actively working to improve the usability and functionality of Appmaker, but you can teach mobile ideation and a basic level of app making using this tool and the supporting teaching kits. \
\
\'97End tools\
\
Teaching kits and resources\
\
We\'92ve been creating open educational resources (or OERs for short) that are designed to be remixed. We, the entire community, are co-creating digital and web literacy curriculum together. We champion exploration, play and even failure. We work openly and learn from one another.\
\
The model behind our open educational resources  uses modularity to improve the remixability of lesson plans. Traditionally, educators have made curriculum for their specific group of learners, and that\'92s still a necessary thing. But with the web, we can separate the specifics from the general and help people make OERs that become plug and play. Let me explain what I mean.\
\
This is a Teaching Kit from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://Webmaker.org"}}{\fldrslt Webmaker.org}}. The Kit page includes the specifics of the lesson. What the overarching learning objectives are, what order the activities will be in, what the essential questions are. But the activities exist in their own pages, with a modified structure designed to give a general walkthrough of how to run a particular activity. Because we are always having to modify our teaching plans based on who we\'92re teaching, the Teaching Kits use this modularity to separate overviews and supporting resources from activity descriptions and how to guides. All our Teaching Kits are built with open web technologies, so you can always change aspects about them, rearrange and rebrand based on who YOUR learners or community are and what interests them. \
\
As an example, have a look at this remix (SPECTROGRAMS). One lays out how to use this activity to teach overarching themes about interactive video and the other is being used to teach people how to think about online privacy. I don\'92t have to create a new activity to introduce privacy in a new Kit, I can use one that someone else has made.\
\
Working together on creating curriculum that functions in this way means that we can solve some of the common problems with open educational resources just by using the web as the platform. These OERs have the version control, authorship, and remixability, built into the resource itself, as each resource can be launched in it\'92s editing application, right on the web itself.\
\
Everything we\'92ve been making is open, free and accessible via {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://webmaker.org"}}{\fldrslt webmaker.org}}. If you\'92re interested in a specific Web Literacy competency, you can use the new Resources section to find Teaching Kits for your Maker Parties.\
\
Finally, we\'92re building new tools and features to help you find and build the resources you need. The new Resources section allows you to suggest resources and tag things from across the web with the Web Literacy Map, and the Kit Builder makes it easy to build new kits by removing the necessity of editing HTML. Both of these tools are new and in active development, so they\'92ll be improving each and every week.\
\
\'97End kits\
\'97Facilitating\
Facilitating a learning experience is incredibly rewarding. We encourage you to find a Teaching Kit at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://webmaker.org"}}{\fldrslt webmaker.org}} and challenge yourself to run a play testing event for other members of your organization. That way you can try out the activities and see what you like about the content, and what you want to change. You\'92ll gain valuable experience in your teaching, and you\'92ll learn how to navigate potential problems. In short, practice makes perfect.\
\
Maker Parties are participatory events, so the facilitators job is to engage people around their interests and help them take control of their own learning. \
\
I like to think of my event planning as designing a learning experience, and I try to set up meta structures so that every type of learner can find a way to communicate, play, create, share and engage with themselves and their peers. Learning is all about shifting perspectives. If you can use your learning objectives to open the door to a learners interests and passion, they will be enthused about continuing their learning in that area.\
\
Practically speaking, the first rule of running an interactive learning experience like a Maker Party is to relax and go with the flow. After days, weeks or months of planning, don\'92t be surprised when something unexpected happens in the first ten minutes. Learners will be full of surprises, so being adaptable and flexible is important for them to get the most out of your event. \
\
\'97connecting\
Before, during and after your Maker Party, talk about what you\'92re doing. Work in the open and share your plans, insights, experiences and makes with the global community. Working in this way will bring more people to your organization by empowering them to find interests within what you\'92re doing. It will also help you gather useful feedback so that you can be prepared for the day of your event.\
\
Use hashtags, blogposts and the Web to share what you know, ask questions, gather resources and engage with a global community of people who care about teaching and learning in the 21
\fs16 \super st
\fs24 \nosupersub  Century. Maker Party is for anyone that believes in connected learning and empowering people. \
\
During Maker Party, we\'92ll learn, make, share, break, fail and learn some more, and we\'92ll do it all together. We\'92ll continue this work, pushing the future of education and technology by making and sharing and being champions of open culture.\
\
So in closing, the Digital World is gigantic, and we\'92re a small, but growing community. We\'92re passionate, idealistic, friendly and silly. We\'92re sharing everything we do through the #teachtheweb and #makerparty hashtags and @webmaker twitter accounts. Add your Maker Parties to the Webmaker events platform and find other Maker Parties by searching the event database. We\'92re so glad you and your organization are involved, and we\'92re looking forward to seeing your work.  Thank you for helping us teach the web.}