{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 OpenSans;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab920
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab920

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
How You Run a Meeting Says a Lot About Your Values: Participatory Practices for Open Communities\
\
Hi, my name is Laura Hilliger. Today I\'92m here, stepping in for my colleague Michelle, who is stepping in for me on the other side of the world. That\'92s a long story, but I swear it makes some sense. She\'92s helping a community internalize a lot of the things I\'92m going to talk about today.\
\
Had Michelle been here, she would have written a very, very different talk\'85\
\
Wait before we go any further and because I\'92m going to talk about participatory practices and sharing, I\'92d like for you all to spend the next 5 minutes participating in a conversation with someone you don\'92t know. Everyone turn to someone nearby, who you haven\'92t met yet, and introduce yourselves. Ready? Go.\
\
I wonder what you learned in the last five minutes. Can you summarize your conversation in a single word? Come on, shout it out.\
\
I swear, I was secretly hoping that someone would shout out \'93oberaffentittengeil\'94\
\
SLIDE 2\
\
I\'92ve done that a million times. Randomly talked to the person next to me, randomly inquired about what brought them to where they are or what inspires them. Not because I was asked to, but because I caught someone\'92s eye or because I thought their shoes were interesting. I know that all of us need connection, and so I make an effort to connect with people around me. I\'92m an active participant in my own life.\
\
I am constantly learning about participation. I don\'92t mean that I\'92m studying participation or collaboration as an academic, I\'92m not actually collecting data on how or why people start on a pathway towards an open and participatory viewpoint, I\'92m saying that as a human being, I am learning what it means to participate. In life. In work. In relationships. In connection. In being human.\
\
You see today, today being a day last week when I started writing this talk for you, my colleague, someone I admire a great deal, called me a sociopath. He was just kidding, but it made me have to stop and think about some of my self perceptions and behaviors. Sometimes I think I have a lack of empathy. I\'92m nearly an exhibitionist in group settings, despite my raging anti-social behavior in personal contexts. I swing a full gambit between extrovert and introvert depending on the day, time, situation and I am diagnosed manic-depressive. I am both arrogant and self defacing, brutally honest and a cunning liar, neurotic, self assured, sporty and geeky. I am, in short, a conundrum to myself.\
\
I ended up taking an Internet quiz that would tell me whether or not I\'92m a sociopath because being able to throw all my hangups on a single term would be convenient. I do have anti-social attitudes sometimes\'85Really, it\'92s ridiculous that I would even take such a quiz, as I\'92m obviously not a sociopath.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Naturally, the quiz told me so. I\'92m within the normal range for a typical human being. And as a sidenote, if you happen to be worried about whether or not you\'92re a sociopath, you aren\'92t a sociopath. Humans have an unbelievable range of emotion, this wheel doesn't even begin to cover it, though, to be fair, it'd be pretty hard to graphically encapsulate all human emotion. \
\
SLIDE 3\
\
Emotion is influenced by surroundings and norms, so what keeps us from truly participating 100% of the time is fear and the social and cultural norms we\'92ve been taught are rules in civil discourse and social behavior. We\'92ve been taught that that the speaker is notable, that the CEO has vision, that the teacher is the expert, that the police maintain control, that respect means being quiet and letting others have the floor, and if someone is wrong, gently speaking up, but only in certain situations and those situations are discoverable by common sense\'85Naja. That gets a bit complicated.\
\
But all of that is a collective perception that is, in this day and age, teetering on the precipice of change. \
\
With the invention of the web and it\'92s ability to connect us, we\'92ve started to push back at the public perception of \'93proper\'94 by being bold and trusting in best intentions and it\'92s beginning to bleed into the real world in fascinating ways. Much of the open community is adopting views around the way we interact with each other. Individual views that were, at some point, collectively considered to be impossible to scale. Views like \'93Everyone\'92s voice matters\'94 or \'93There are no stupid questions\'94. Simple, humanistic points of view that are directly related to how we as human beings participate in the world and govern our lives.\
\
Part of the reason that I\'92m here today is to promote the idea that using participatory practices in your meetings and events will lead to better solutions, more inspirations and more learning, and in theory, everyone here knows that. But when it comes to that question of scale, people have a hard time imagining how they can implement participatory practices when there are thousands of people in the room. For whatever reason, we tend to think that a participatory event is bound to be a chaotic free-for-all where nothing gets done and no one can possibly learn or make anything, but here\'92s the thing: Learning and making aren\'92t passive, and participatory does not mean formless.\
\
We can and should put people in charge of their own learning and lives by giving them the agency to take control. We should encourage people to share their perspectives so that we can instigate change, be better people. We can encourage these things on a large scale, and at Mozilla, we have. \
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\sa158\pardirnatural\qj
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 [Mozilla story] then SLIDE\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
SLIDE 5\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 A large part of my job is to help people who want to teach the web to begin thinking about learning and interactions in a different way. I sort of think of "participatory" as the difference between a lecture and a conversation. It's the difference between passive and active. At Mozilla, and more broadly in the connected learning and progressive pedagogy landscapes, we believe that centering on people\'92s interests and facilitating connections to help people produce something is more valuable to their development.\
\
So we\'92re modeling participatory and collaborative learning experiences by running events where roles are shifted and urging everyone to make and learn together.\
\
SLIDE 6\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
The Mozilla Festival is one such event, and it\'92s definitely our largest. We practice what we preach by bringing together different types of minds - educators, technologists, scientists, journalists, artists, filmmakers, activists et cetera and so-forth - and designing a space where they can interact with each other and with ideas. We aim to design a space that honors the participants in the room. It should respect their intellect, their skills and their time. We place making and learning at the center of  our activities, and focus on the desires and goals of the very people we seeks to honor. We ask ourselves every step of the way, is this valuable for people? Is it fun?\
\
And according to the people who come to Mozfest, it is.\
\
SLIDE 7 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SqEQCU_pvKs"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
[Mozfest Video]}}\
\
Learning how participatory design can empower community was something I started to do at the very first Mozilla Festival five years ago. There, I found\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  a bunch of passionate people who believed that the Web could aid in making the world a better place. They were people who loved the Web I loved. Not a specific website or application, but the entire idea that the Web connects us and allows us to explore key problems together. What I found was a community, my community. I found people who pushed at things in my belief system. Things that had always felt a little wrong, but I could never pinpoint why. I was challenged, engaged - people seemed to care what I thought, even though I didn\'92t know them.\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
I started contributing to Mozilla after that first experience. I was so fascinated by the distributed ownership and responsibility, so moved by the idea that connecting could make our world better, so excited that Mozilla was working to make sure the internet stays open, participatory, decentralized and public a 100 years from now, that I just got addicted. I found collaborators.\
\
SLIDE 8\
\
For the last couple of years at the Mozilla Festival, I\'92ve been what we call a Space Wrangler. Each Space Wrangler has a floor, there are 9 floors, and the job is to make the floor awesome by helping facilitate the things that our community wants to do. We are responsible for making sure that the 1500 people who show up have a good time. That they feel valued, heard, encouraged. Now, of course 9 people can\'92t personally attend to 1500 participants, but we can serve as mentors to active and engaged community members who feel agency around the methods, processes and ideas within our projects. \
\
Last year, I wanted to see if we could create a sort of self-serving participatory experience wherein the people who were already engaged had a supporting mechanism to engage others. What I mean is, I wanted to make something that was visually interesting enough that people from all over the festival would come to it, and once there they would find calls to action that no matter what each individuals skill level was, they could engage with.\
\
SLIDE 9\
\
I had this idea for a giant scrum board kind of thing. Basically, there were three columns "to make", "making", "made". The 1
\fs16 \super st
\fs24 \nosupersub  column\'85.\
\
I designed a color-coding system and joined forces with a colleague who was trying to find a way to get more participation into her track. We worked with over a hundred people from all over the world to modify their session proposals to be production centered, detailing projects into hundreds of discrete tasks that anyone could pick up and do. \
\
One of the things I'm quite good at is breaking down complicated problems into actionable steps. So for each proposal I read, I asked myself, what is this person really wanting to do? How can they do that with other people? And what is the result of them doing that? I read a proposal that wanted, for example, to fight the sad truth of gender biasm by helping people understand how it plays out in the media and in maker culture. The applicant wanted to make a piece of curriculum that taught what gender stereotyping is and how to spot it. So, I worked with her to break down "Curriculum for Gender Stereotyping" into tasks like "define learning objectives" , "find website promoting false portrayals of women" , "list some discussion questions for exploring gender stereotypes" etc. Breaking down a complicated project in this way, allowed us to define tasks that anyone could do, and in the end, the tasks could be added back up into something useful.\
\
We organized extensive sets of community-run makes and activities that were based on making or building something together. \
\
To be honest, I had never attempted a self-serving participatory action like that at such a scale. I\'92d used the method with a few people, maxing out at about seven colleagues, all of whom are like me in that they participate fearlessly. I was terrified that the structure would fall flat on it\'92s face, and that no one would engage. That people would roll their eyes at the tasks we spent so much time detailing.\
\
SLIDE 10\
\
What happened was an amazing experience where people opened their minds to the possibilities of massive collaboration, and we made a ton of stuff. Together, we made things for Emergencies + Conflict Zones, to Empower Diverse Audiences, to promote and support Cultural Archives, for Low-Fi and Offline Environments, for Digital Storytelling + Collaboration, to Put the 'Glitch' in Remix: Mashups, Memes + Art and we got geeky with makes for Developers and the Future. \
\
We made curriculum, examples, handbooks, best practices, prototypes\'85well we made a TON of stuff.\
\
The sheer physical act of translating ideas and quandaries into colored cards, basically project briefs and task lists  manifesting as a rainbow, helped people have agency. And once people have agency, they are much more likely to wield it. \
\
No one read one of these cards and did exactly what the card said, because none of the cards were exacting enough that a robot could have done them. The humans had to use their human to make decisions, but they didn\'92t have to vocalize an idea necessarily. They didn\'92t have to be brave if they didn\'92t want to.\
\
 There are, of course, some folks who are activated enough around their ideas that they riff easily off what other people are doing, but the majority of people need design constraints in order to comfortably participate. Practically speaking, finding ways to broadcast restraints so that people can participate is a delicate balance. You don\'92t want to dictate, but you don\'92t want to leave everything to chance either.\
\
This year the Mozilla Festival is from October 24
\fs16 \super th
\fs24 \nosupersub  to the 26
\fs16 \super th
\fs24 \nosupersub  in London. If you want to see a reflection of how Mozilla operates, take part in a truly participatory experience and come join us.\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
SLIDE 11\
\
Championing open learning and designing events where participation is encouraged and rewarded is only a part of how you can use participatory practices to strengthen your communities. If you implement systemic changes that make 
\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
open collaboration the norm
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 instead of the fun thing you get to do every once in a while, you reap the rewards of what that collaboration brings. \
\
I think the Mozilla project is a good example of this. World wide, we have about 1100 paid staff in 20 countries, many of us working remotely. The rest of Mozilla is a community who are invited to participate in everything we do.\
\
SLIDE 12\
\
Designing for participation is at the heart of all the things I work on at Mozilla, it is the reason I publish week notes containing links to every document, image, bug and product. I organize my own work around the idea that other people can participate, and most of my colleagues do as well. We work in the open, because participation is key for Mozilla. Without our volunteer community, we can't compete on a global market.\
\
I\'92ve learned that you have to help people understand why their participation is necessary and create systems that make participation easy. You have to help people understand what you\'92re working on, and you have to respect peoples contributions. Most importantly, you have to model the behaviors you want to see in the world.\
\
SLIDE 13\
\
I participate in and run connectivist learning experiences that manifest in both online and offline environments. I define a connectivist learning experience as an experience that has the express purpose of connecting people and strengthening networks. The point of our gigantic Scrum board at Mozfest was not to get people to make stuff for us, it was to get people to collaborate. This is also a big part of the reason Webmaker Training exists.\
\
Webmaker Training seeks to model behaviors around online open collaboration and being generous with our individual skill sharing. We all have something to teach and we all have something to learn.\
\
SLIDE 14\
\
My dream for Webmaker Training is a blended learning program that uses connectivist mechanisms to connect people in an online environment and then brings them together in an offline environment to see theories and strategies in practice and build things together. \
\
The curricula we use in Webmaker\'92s training program focuses on community participation and the values of the open web and open culture that Mozilla champions elsewhere. We teach progressive pedagogies, maker centric skills, web literacy skills, social skills, technical skills, and facilitation skills both online and offline \'96 and we use participatory methods throughout.\
\
SLIDE 15\
\
Our training program is grounded in the idea that if we model the behaviors we want to see,  we will influence the behaviors of others. We use conversation, not lecture, we set up design constraints, we don't demand assignments, we encourage, not dictate, we ask people what they want to learn, and then we base our agenda design on that, we are flexible, and in participatory practice, flexibility is probably the most important thing. \
\
Your behaviors reflect your values. This is true for our personal lives and our professional lives, wherein our behaviors are often clouded by our own perceptions of self, our cultural and social backgrounds, our assumptions of what the world wants from us. \
\
SLIDE 16\
\
I think we all want to be honest and open. I think we all need accolades and encouragement, and I think that we all feel like we have to prove to others that we are capable. But we convince ourselves that we\'92ll be damaged if we live up to those values. We are afraid that someone else will receive accolades that were supposed to be ours. We become discouraged and despondent because we allow ourselves to fester with envy and fear. \
\
We humans are afraid to just be ourselves.\
\
Through our work to #TeachTheWeb we are encouraging our community and any one else who wants to get involved to try out loud. Come up with a new way to start a conversation, or a new way to implement design constraints, or a new way to get people to share ideas, and then try it. Who cares if you fail? Why not learn something new today.\
\
The way you participate in the world says something about your values. The way your organizations run meetings and events say something about how they view your and your peers contributions. If you\'92re working at an organization that is open or trying to be open, you and your colleagues should feel comfortable expressing your opinion, even when your opinion is quite obviously not widely shared. \
\
SLIDE 17\
\
Putting everyone on the same level and giving everyone agency and promoting open collaboration is a terrifying prospect, especially in business. It\'92s a pretty unnatural feeling. And it\'92s a pretty impossible feeling to feel, all the time, that we are worthy of having voice. \
\
We are groomed to understand hierarchies, authorities and seniorities. From the moment we, as toddlers, start testing the resolve of our parents, we start to learn that the world doesn\'92t revolve around our individual selves and we begin to perceive that someone else in any given situation has more power than we do. \
\
We are told what we\'92re not capable, and for whatever reason, we believe what we\'92re told. Sometimes, we assume that someone else has more information, and sometimes they do, but sometimes the greater good is something we can influence, and we choose not to because, again, we\'92re afraid.\
\
Let\'92s be very clear that openness, collaboration and respect for ourselves does not mean filterless, controlling and arrogant. It\'92s about conditioning our emotional intelligence. \
\
Slide 18\
\
I think designing and using participatory methods is mostly about opening the door for people. Help people see what it means to have agency. At Mozilla, we're successful if we take initiative. It doesn't matter if we fail, it's about believing that we have agency. \
\
We work in the open, sharing half baked ideas, prototypes, failures, challenges, and everything else we\'92re making and experiencing through our work in regular community calls, blogposts, wiki pages and demo rounds. Mozillians participate and collaborate to keep the web open and free, but the open, participatory methods we use can be used for anything.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
So let\'92s get down to brass tacks.
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 HOW do you design for participation? What actions do WE have to take to invite people in? It\'92s not just facilitation, it\'92s about empowerment. So how do we empower people to step out of their shell and believe that their ideas matter?
\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Instead of me talking for another 60 minutes, how about we figure that out together. \
\
I have here a stack of paper and a bunch of post it notes. Here\'92s what we\'92re going to try.\
\
I\'92m going to give you 20 minutes to brainstorm some ideas of activities you would use to get people participating in a meeting. Your first step is to define the meeting or event like \'93We\'92re at a meeting to determine the future of our fish-flavored toothpaste product.\'94\
\
Then define the problem you need to solve \'93We\'92re not doing well in the market, we think we need a new design.\'94\
\
How will you invite people to solve a problem? Or better said, how would you invite people to design a solution? What if there were 5 people, 15 people 50 people? \
\
Define the participatory activities that you\'92ll use to get those 50 people to solve your problem.\
\
In 20 minutes, We\'92ll do something we call speedgeeking \'96 you sell us your participatory ideas in 1 minute. Your group is going to have 1 minute to blow our minds with your plan. \
\
So, last instruction, you\'92re going to collaborate on this. Find five people, once you find your five people, send someone up here to get some paper and markers, here\'92s a countdown.
\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\

\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Afterwards, we\'92ll have a little time for Q & A, ok? Is there any one here who hates everything about this idea and is willing to vocalize it? Oh good, that was terrifying for me.\
\
Ok, here\'92s a timer, ready, set Go!\
\
Group 1 - come on down\'85.
\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\

\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Thanks everyone for indulging me, I hope that was fun for you, I hope you learned something together. I\'92m happy to answer any questions you might have.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
}