{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 OpenSans;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red65\green65\blue65;}
\deftab920
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab920

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
You see today, today being the day that I started writing this talk for you, my colleague, someone I admire a great deal, called me a sociopath. He was just kidding, but I stopped to think about my perceived lack of empathy and ended up taking an Internet quiz that would tell me whether or not I\'92m a sociopath (here\'92s a hint, if you\'92re worried about being a sociopath, you aren\'92t a sociopath).\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 The quiz told me that I\'92m within the normal range for a typical human being. Then it let me know that I might still be clinically depressed, schizophrenic, borderline, obsessive-compulsive or have AIDS, but random quiz maker didn\'92t have tests for those.\
\
As a non-Sociopath I am, actually, pretty anti-social in my personal life. But I am incredibly social in my professional life, social to the \
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\sa158\pardirnatural\qj
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 I wasn\'92t always an open source activist. I wasn\'92t not an open source activist, I just didn\'92t know anything about open source. I used to think that Open Source was only a way of writing software, and until I got to know Mozilla, I didn\'92t have any idea of what that really meant. I was building things on the web. I taught myself HTML and CSS and enough Javascript to get by, and I became kind of decent at ActionScripting and building interactive stories and designing and building websites for people. At the beginning of my career I was working freelance and teaching web technologies and software in San Francisco trying, like every other almost college graduate, to figure out what the hell I was going to do with my life. \
Somewhere in there, I cofounded a startup where we tried to supplement Art Education (or rather the lack of it in our education systems) with online video tutorials on creative subjects. Stuff like how to make mosaics or throw ceramic pots or how to build a website using Fireworks and Dreamweaver. I moved out of San Francisco to Germany and kept trying to make the business run. It failed epically BUT as a last ditch effort to save it, I went to the very first Mozilla Festival in Barcelona. \
And that\'92s where my whole world changed. The first Mozilla Festival, called \'93Learning, Freedom and the Web\'94 was organized to try and figure out how people were using web technologies in new ways or how they wanted to. Mozilla had this theory that putting educators and technologists together could lead to something bigger. Let me back up a second.\
You know Mozilla as the maker of Firefox, and now Firefox OS, but there are still a lot of people who don\'92t know that Mozilla is an open source project. Hopefully, this crowd knows that. Mozilla is a non-profit. There are no share holders. There are no stock fluctuations. Our mission is to help people understand what it means to have an open web, and we have a set of principles that we believe are critical for the continued health of the Internet. Mozilla promotes teaching the web, and we build the underlying technologies that make it possible to keep the learning relevant over a long time. \
So Mozilla threw this \'93Learning, Freedom and the Web\'94 festival, and I applied to show my startup at the Science Fair so that I could understand why no big corporation had offered us millions of dollars for it. What I learned was not that the Startup was a bad idea or that the content sucked or anything that had to do with the startup at all (actually, people really liked it). But what 
\i I
\i0  learned is that Mozilla is a community of people. Mozillians are people who know that the Web is built to be interoperable, knowable and that it belongs to us. All of us. \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 What I found was a bunch of passionate people who believed that the Web could aid in making the world a better place. They were people who loved the Web I loved. Not a specific website or application, but the entire idea that the Web connects us and allows us to explore key problems together. What I found were a bunch of people who were working together to make the world a better place. I found people who pushed at things in my belief system. Things that had always felt a little wrong, but I could never pinpoint why. I was challenged, engaged - people seemed to care what I thought, even though I didn\'92t know them. WHY!?\
\
I started contributing to Mozilla after that first experience. I was so fascinated by the distributed ownership and responsibility, so moved by the idea that connecting could make our world better, so excited that Mozilla was working to make sure the internet stays open, participatory, decentralized and public a 100 years from now, that I just got addicted. \
\
My participation in a vision of what teaching and learning around technology could be, my participation in the open governance structures I was introduced to at that first event, fundamentally changed who I am and what motivates me. Being asked to participate is what led me to asking others to participate.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
I think the real life aspect of our training program is massively important because meeting people in real life strengthens our connections to them. Our minds shift when people become a physical identity, just like the physical cards at Mozfest caused a shift in people\'92s minds to help them feel agency, so too does a physical persona help solidify connections.\
}