{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1343\cocoasubrtf140
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 OpenSans;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\sa158\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 6th European Congress on E-Inclusion \
\pard\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\sa158\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Keynote: Delivering Digital Skills\
\pard\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\sa158\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Hello everyone and thank you for having me. My name is Laura Hilliger and today I want to talk about what we call 
\b Web Literacy
\b0 , how we can embed the skills and competencies that term covers into any educational endeavor, and why it's important.\
I only have 15 minutes, which is nowhere near enough time to convince anyone who isn't already convinced that embedding digital skills in our educational programming is a 
\b politically, socially and economically
\b0  responsible thing to do. It\'92s not even enough time to convince you that \'93
\b digital skills\'94 does not mean typing and using spreadsheets.
\b0  So if you aren't convinced, please do get in touch. There are a million reasons why we have to stop pretending that delivering 
\i\b real
\i0  digital skills
\b0  to learners isn't important, and I probably  know all of them.\
I also don't have enough time to talk about 
\i all
\i0  the different kinds of work that 
\b Mozilla and the open source community
\b0  in general does in this arena.
\b  
\b0 You know Mozilla as the maker of Firefox, and now Firefox OS, but there are still a lot of people who don\'92t know that Mozilla is an open project. That means that anyone, anywhere can participate in the work we do. \
We\'92re a 
\b diverse community
\b0  of people, some of whom are librarians and educators, some are developers and designers, some are evangelists, marketers, poets, scientists, journalists and people who hold every other type of interest. The thing we all have in common is that we believe that the web has to remain open, it\'92s how it was designed to be, and we work together to make sure it stays that way. We\'92re 
\b not waiting around
\b0  for everyone to catch up with the idea that \'93digital skills\'94 are about education, in the highest philosophical definition of the word. We are building the Internet that society needs.\
Mozilla is a 
\b non-profit
\b0 . There are no share holders. There are no stock fluctuations. Our 
\b mission
\b0  is to help people understand what it actually means to have an open web, and we have a set of principles that we believe are critical for the continued health of the Internet. Mozilla 
\b promotes teaching the web
\b0 , and we build the 
\b underlying technologies that make it possible to keep the learning relevant over a long time
\b0 . We work to ensure open technical standards, and we strive to help others understand the benefits of being inclusive and working collaboratively.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1
\cf0 What I mean when I say that Mozilla promotes teaching the web is that we are a community of people who 
\b embrace and spread the ethos of open culture
\b0 . Openness is about 
\b transparency, decentralization, and remixabilit
\b0 y, it\'92s also about allowing yourself to have ideas and to play with them, allowing and encouraging others to 
\b play
\b0  with them, allowing yourself and others to 
\b fail
\b0  (because failing is an important aspect of learning) \'96 both online and offline. We believe that people should 
\b create knowledge, rather than just consume it, and this is where Web Literacy comes in. \

\b0 \
You see web literacy isn\'92t just about technical skills, technical skills can be learned on your own through tinkering and play. Web Literacy is about
\b  active citizenship in the digital age. 
\b0 \
\
The Web isn\'92t just a technical platform where we store bits and bytes. It is a manifestation of human knowledge or even the human experience, the good AND the bad. \
\
If you believe in the remarkable ability of the human brain to invent and innovate and shape ideas (how could you not?), then the web is a place to share and collaborate on ideas to solve the types of global problems we face now and in the future. So we have to teach the web, we have to increase global web literacy. We have to show people how to contribute, how to work together, how to 
\b MAKE, BUILD, CREATE, PLAY, FAIL and read, write and participate in our knowledge network.
\b0 \
\

\b What kind of competencies and skills am I talking about? \

\b0 I'm talking about the 
\b social skills required for digital communication and efficacy in the digital space
\b0 . I'm talking about the skills people need to work together and make things in an online environment because more and more the things we need to make are abstracted in software. More and more we need people to be able to interact through the filter of digital technology and this type of communication is very different from being face to face with someone. You\'92ll notice I haven\'92t said anything about coding. 
\b It\'92s not about programming
\b0 . It\'92s about teaching people how to read, write and participate on the web, and the best way to do that is to help them participate in real life, and then layer the digital stuff on top. \
\
So, given that we're talking about a variety of skill types, from technical to social to cognitive, affective and even motor skills, how do we teach them? What has been working?\
\
We've had a large degree of 
\b success with constructivist, making as learning methodologies. 
\b0 We use interest driven, project based learning to help learners connect head and hand and create things that are relevant to them in their individual contexts. We encourage 
\b participatory
\b0  interaction, which underpins communication on the web (because you have to both push and pull in order to be a digital citizen), and we deliver 
\b digital skills as a 
\i byproduct
\i0  of the cognitive and social skills
\b0  that are arguably more important in the digital environment and in life. \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
We want people to share digital skills and cool techie stuff, to help people build and make and create and help them connect to the giant community of open learners on the web. 
\b We want people to understand open culture, understand the mechanics of the web so that they can be citizens of the world. 
\b0 \
\
We\'92ve seen community teaching and learning in action during our Maker Party campaign. This year there were over 2500 Maker Parties in over 450 cities, in 86 countries -- reaching over 125,000 learners. By taking the simple step of inviting people to teach locally, we ended up with something powerful and global.\
\
If we want to build our futures \'96 and share what we know-- then we need to empower a massive community: a community to teach the world the web. The good news? The formula for teaching at a massive scale is actually quite simple. \
\
1. People who love the web ...\
2. Take action ...\
3. To teach other people to about the web.\
\

\b We\'92re all learning about learning
\b0  in a world where technology changes every five minutes and what we used to know about teaching and learning may no longer be relevant. \
\
Part of that learning about learning happens in the real world. We believe in blended learning, and encourage others to get together both online and off to play with the Web, make things, collaborate and share. We urge people to gather in their libraries, community centers and even parks to teach each other the web. This is a big part of our culture, getting together and using both digital and physical materials like post it notes and tape to explore ideas and make things. We are working together to teach open culture, web mechanics, social skills, citizenship. \
\
We make learning resources for both online and offline workshops or gatherings, and we encourage sharing your offline experiences with the greater online community. In this way, we never stop learning from one another. \
\
A large part of my job is to train people who want to teach the web to begin 
\b thinking about learning in a different way
\b0 . We\'92re modeling participatory and collaborative learning experiences by running learning events where roles are shifted and urging everyone to make and learn together. 
\b We don\'92t have to be programmers to deliver digital skills, we don\'92t have to know everything
\b0 . Our youth can teach us and each other. I find that putting different skill sets together and encouraging peer to peer interaction is a much more effective way to transfer technical skills. 
\b Open, peer to peer, participatory learning methodologies
\b0  help develop confidence and agency in our learners. They are challenged to think out loud.\
\
The 
\b pushback
\b0  that I sometimes get with this kind of thinking is that people won\'92t acquire digital skills if we spend our time focusing on the collaborating and thinking parts, if we aim for 
\b agency and confidence
\b0  first. But they\'92re wrong. Digital skills are no use if you don\'92t trust yourself to fail. They\'92re no use if you can\'92t communicate. They\'92re no use if you don\'92t believe you have something to say. And the people in the world who have the most technical skills - the programmers, the technical architects, the digital makers, the multimedia designers -
\b  we had to develop confidence to try, because most of us taught ourselves these skills while schools where busy failing us.
\b0 \
\
Accessing the place inside someone where confidence builds is about creating a safe space.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1
\cf0 The fact that libraries have the perfect set up for creating that safe space is only one of the reasons that libraries are the blindingly obvious, right place to be pushing this kind of work. Libraries have all the conceptual and physical attributes necessary, and the similarities between a library and the open web is almost creepy. \
\
Libraries house 
\b knowledge
\b0 , so does the web. Libraries are 
\b community
\b0  centers, so is the web. Libraries are supposed to be 
\b inclusive
\b0 , so is the open web and the community that keeps it open. Libraries can provide 
\b access
\b0  to the marginalized, they can give people a sense of belonging, they can be the place in the world where a person can learn how to be a person in the world, and the web can be and do those things to. Libraries though, have the added bonus of being a physical space where people can connect in real life. And despite my love for virtual connections, we still need physical ones, and that won't ever change, it's part of being human.\
\
So let\'92s use our public spaces, #TeachTheWeb and work together to provide people the type of educational opportunities they deserve to have in this day and age.\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Thanks so much for listening, and I\'92m happy to answer any questions you might have.}