{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 OpenSans;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\sa158\pardirnatural\qj

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 #teachtheweb: Open Curriculum and Creative Remixing\

\i\b0 short
\i0 \
Mozilla Webmaker is tools, curriculum, and a community building a movement to teach the web. Join Mozilla Webmaker to explore remixable curricula and a few easy-to-use creation tools for your classroom. Share your own strategies for bringing the web and all that it is into your students lives.\

\i extended
\i0 \
There are a gazillion open educational resources, but educators are natural remixers, natural hackers and naturally find the value in play and exploration. We create new curricula not always because we have to, but because we know that we can make things more relevant to our particular learners. In this conversation, we\'92ll explore what\'92s missing in our curricula creation processes, and we\'92ll share strategies for innovative media use in the classroom. We\'92ll play around with Teaching Kits and learning resources educators have been making on {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://Webmaker.org"}}{\fldrslt Webmaker.org}}, and we\'92ll look at the tools they\'92ve used to make them.  We\'92ll also talk about why Web Literacy competencies are important to bring into the classroom and look at some baseline curricula that can be used to teach while you yourself are still learning. \
We can use open technologies to help students take control of their own learning, and we can use these technologies to better our own praxis, extend our personal learning networks and find mentorship. There are thousands of online tools and systems that promise to be the perfect environment for learning, but what if the Web itself is the platform? Connected Educators are beginning to explore this idea, and Mozilla Webmaker wants to help you both learn and teach the web.\

\i Conversation type
\i0 \
This conversation will be an active, maker focused workshop. Participants will begin by reflecting on their OER creation processes and surfacing the one (or top three) biggest headaches about contributing to or using open educational resource libraries. Then, we will form creation groups to MAKE OERs through remix and exploration. At the end, we\'92ll have some new resources and participants will have a better understanding of how the web IS the platform.\
\
A look into Open Culture\
Short\
Mozilla is one of the pioneers behind the idea of \'93Open\'94. It\'92s history and \
Extended\
\
Conversation type\
\
}