{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 OpenSans;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Google Summer of Code\
2018 Application\
\
DEADLINE: 23 Jan 2018.\
\
Why does your org want to participate in Google Summer of Code? (Max 1000)\

\i The passbolt team makes open source software designed to help  people take control of their online lives. Password sharing is not good practice, but people do it anyway. They share because they're friends, family or colleagues. Our software allows people to securely share passwords. We build passbolt because we care about privacy and security on the web.
\i0 \
We want to take part in the Google Summer of Code to teach other people best practices in privacy and security. We\'92re encryption experts, and we know quite a bit about user experience, coding languages, and software development. Technology now touches every aspect of life. It is important to help others become more adept at building and using technology.\
We participate in many open source communities. We serve as bridges between technology and other kinds of communities, like activist communities and non-profit communities. We are accountable to the greater open community. Participating in the Google Summer of Code is one way to give something back. We believe in lifelong learning, curiosity and a joy embodied in a diverse and disperse group of people on the Web. Plus we know what it is like to struggle with code and then make it work. There is nothing more satisfying.\
We would not be honest if we did not admit that participating will help us as an organization as well. Getting to know others who care about these themes will help us improve. Helping learners achieve their goals will give us a sense of accomplishment. We will meet new friends and contributors.\
All in all, participating in the Google Summer of Code will be beneficial for us. Our backgrounds, personalities and interests will be beneficial to others as well.\
How many potential mentors have agreed to mentor this year?\
\
1-5\
\
How will you keep mentors engaged with their students? (Max 1000)\
\
We are lucky to have community builders and educators on our team.  We have a variety of platforms and processes that can help us engage with our learners. If we are accepted, we will prepare a framework that helps students know where they can find help, when and where they can talk to us face to face (on video), how best to utilize various resources. We will also utilize our educator friends to create a start to finish curriculum that fits within the Google Summer of Code. In terms of engagement, we will have online calls, special tutorials and collaborative coding exercises in addition to asynchronous exercises and activities designed to help learners absorb new concepts and ideas. We will actively check in on learners and invite them into the online spaces where we work everyday. Our mentors have agreed to participate and will do their upmost to create safe and participatory learning spaces for the Google Summer of Code.\
\
How will you help your students stay on schedule to complete their projects? (max 100)\
\
The first step to staying on schedule is knowing what the schedule is. We will plan carefully for the Summer of Code to make sure that no matter what speed a student is learning at, they will be able to accomplish something. We will set up mechanisms to help remind learners of their progress while encouraging them to explore the themes we focus on. Finally, we will use consistency and open communication to ensure that students have everything they need to stay on top of their learning.\
\
How will you get your students involved in your community during GSoC? (max 1000)\
The communication frameworks we will develop for the Google Summer of Code will be built on the back of preexisting processes. This means that learners will be introduced to the tools and processes we use with our own community. They won\'92t be completely separated from the real world of passbolt. We think this is important because too often learners are placed in sandbox environments that function very differently from reality. We believe it will help students develop other types of skills, like online social skills and open practices, if we introduce them to our community as part of their learning.\
\
How will you keep students involved with your community after GSoC? (max 1000)\
Students will have the option to continue playing and building with passbolt codebases. During the Summer of Code they will be given accounts to our forum and certain github repos, so they will be able to continue using those spaces. Our hope is that through the Summer of Code, students are inspired to remain part of the community through their own free will. We will, however, also attempt to keep them involved by reaching out regularly with new opportunities that are commensurate with their levels.\
\
Provide a reference (optional)\
If you are a new organization to GSoC, is there a Google employee or previously participating organization who will vouch for you? If so, please enter their name, contact email, and relationship to your organization.\
Our friends and colleagues at the We Are Open Co-op have worked for Mozilla, Moodle, Greenpeace, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://Opensource.com"}}{\fldrslt Opensource.com}}, Makers Academy and a variety of other open educational and activist organizations. They are specialists in open education and have told us they would be happy to provide a reference. \
Laura Hilliger: laura@zythepsary.com\
Doug Belshaw: hello@dynamicskillset.com\
John Bevan: john@bevangelist.uk\
Bryan Mathers: bryan@visualthinkery.com\
\
Anything else we should now? (optional)\
\
\
\
\
\
}