{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 OpenSans;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 My name is Laura Hilliger, I think many of you are already aware of the work we\'92re doing at Mozilla Webmaker, so I thought I\'92d give you a quick background and then we can just chat.\
\
I like to Teach the Web. I\'92ve been walking the line between education and technology my entire career, having found an affinity for playing with computers and code and messing around with various types of software at a pretty early age. I remember falling in love with the Web the first time it took 22 minutes to log on through a modem that sounded like nails on a chalkboard. I\'92ve loved it ever since, through all it\'92s phases, and I\'92ve spent a lot of time understanding why I feel the way I feel about it. It\'92s because the Web is an ecosystem of knowledge \'96 it has the power to connect all of us, to help us find our kindred spirits, to change the world. It can do all of those things, if we have the basic skills we need to explore that ecosystem and exchange ideas, stories, truths with one another. \
\
I love to teach the web, which is why I love working with Mozilla.\
\
Really, Mozilla is a community of people. Mozillians are all over the world working to teach the web. And I don\'92t just mean formally to students, but to each other, to their families, to their friends, in their every day lives. Mozillians are people who know that the Web is built to be interoperable, knowable and that it belongs to us. All of us. And Mozillians teach the web to keep it that way.\
\
Mozilla is a non-profit. Our mission is to help people understand what all of this means, and we have a set of principles that we believe are critical for the continued health of the Internet.\
\
This month, you are asking yourselves the question \'93What comes first Digital Literacy or Digital Citizenship?\'94 My opinion is that literacy and citizenship are so intrinsically linked, they have to be conceived that way, taught that way. I think the misconception about \'93digital literacy\'94 is that it\'92s all about technical skill acquisition. Individuals must have the ability to shape their own experiences on the Internet \'96 this isn\'92t just about broadcasting information, but thinking about it, understand implications and relationships, understanding what consequences your online actions have in your online and offline life. \
\
A few weeks ago, Doug Belshaw spoke with the OOE community about the work we\'92re doing around the Web Literacy Map. Web Literacy is about the culture, mechanics and citizenship of the Web. It\'92s not just about coding or making web pages, it\'92s about helping people gain the competencies and skills that allow them to read AND write the web, to  participate in global discussions, to think critically about what they find there. We need to understand the web, which means understanding how computers work, but also about the social skills that go with living in a digital world. Collaboration, Storytelling, Community, Civic Engagement, Self-Expression, Conviction, Critical Thinking...\
\
At Webmaker, the culture, mechanics and citizenship underpin everything we do as we teach the web through making. We try to meet learners where they are by zeroing in on individual interests and helping folks make the things they want to make. At the same time, we promote open culture, participatory and collaborative learning and individual responsibility. Like you, we believe in connected learning, constructivism and other progressive pedagogies.   \
\
To that end, we\'92ve been building software to make learning about the web easy. We have three tools, which you should go and play with them sometime when you have a few moments to be creative. Don\'92t forget to share whatever you make with the hashtag #teachtheweb!\
\
The Xray Goggles are a good first step into the power that we have to be more than users of the web, and instead makers of the web. We can rearrange the basic building blocks and explore the web critically, we can use this tool to rewrite what others have written. \
\
And when we feel comfortable changing the web that exists, we can learn more to write a new web. Thimble is our browser based editor. We\'92ve been layering learning content on top of the editor, which lets people see how something is built, and then use remix to create something new.\
\
The third tool is designed to further explore critical thought, commentary and participation in the digital age. It kind of plays off the idea that we don\'92t just have to consume media, we can create it, hack it, change it and change its meaning. It\'92s also one of the coolest tools ever, and I\'92m not at all bias\'85\
\
Popcorn Maker allows you to pull the Web itself into video. You can use it to tell a story, explore or comment on an issue. There are a lot of great examples of Popcorn Makes that folks have made, and I encourage you to go to Webmaker.org and explore what people are doing. This piece, by the radio rookies, has helped me explain the power of Popcorn Maker for education so many times I\'92ve lost count. \
\
This piece was put together by a group of kids in New York. Let\'92s see\'85do we have time to watch it? \
\
At Mozilla, we\'92re trying to help bridge the gap between technologists and educators by helping both groups have a conversation about teaching and learning the web. We\'92re trying to get all of these people who care about the web from different perspectives talking together to improve both our pedagogy around the web as well as the web itself.\
\
We\'92ve been creating some open educational resources that are designed to be remixed. We, the entire community, are co-creating digital and web literacy curriculum together, and exploring the new definition of Literacy and the perceived boundaries of technology. We\'92re all learning about learning in a world where technology changes every five minutes and what we used to know about teaching and learning may no longer be relevant. \
\
Part of that learning about learning happens in the real world. We believe in blended learning, and encourage others to get together both online and off to play with the Web, make things, collaborate and share. This is a big part of our culture, getting together and using physical materials like post it notes and tape to explore ideas and make things to further help teach the web, and remember when I say teach the web, I mean teaching about open culture, web mechanics as well as citizenship. We have learning resources for both online and offline workshops or gatherings, and we always encourage sharing your offline experiences with the greater online community. In this way, we never stop learning from one another. \
\
In 2014, the Teach the Web team aims to create educational resources for the competencies in the Web Literacy Map with; baseline curriculum that can be remixed to fit any subject. We also want to provide training opportunities to help people level up both their technical skills and their ability to design collaborative, participatory learning experiences. It\'92s a sort of professional development program where we all learn how to teach the web together. \
\
So, I\'92ve talked enough, are there questions? Ideas? Desires?\
}