{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 OpenSans;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\sa120\pardirnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Slide 1\
Michelle\
5 mins get to know each other\
\
Slide 2\
I participate in life\
Constantly learning about participation in life. In work\'85\
Sociopath, gambit, arrogant/self defacing, brutally honest/cunning liar, neurotic/self-assured\
Range of human emotion\
\
Slide 3\
Emotion is influenced by surroundings and norms, ceo, teacher (blue shirt hand, black shirt gorilla)\
Connection has helped us redefine what "normal" means\
Participatory - Scale and we can give people agency, at mozilla we have\
\
Slide 4\
Mozilla story\
We\'92re a community\
\
Slide 5\
My job shifting dynamics\
"participatory" as the difference between a lecture and a conversation. It's the difference between passive and active.\
Mozilla, connected learning, progressive pedagogies = facilitating connections, modeling behaviors by running participatory events\
\
Slide 6\
Mozfest is one such event, describe Mozfest\
We ask ourselves if it's valuable and according to the people who participate, it is.\
\
Slide 7\
Mozfest movie\
Learning how participatory design can empower community was something I started to do at the very first Mozilla Festival five years ago. \
\
Slide 8\
Space Wrangler (define the job)\
Curious about self serving participatory mechanism\
\
Slide 9\
I had this idea for a giant scrum board kind of thing.\
I'm quite good at is breaking down complicated problems into actionable steps\
FEAR\
\
Slide 10\
Results\
sheer physical act of translating\
Humans had to be human\
\
Slide 11\
Open collaboration the norm instead of fun thing you get to do\
Mozilla is good at it\
\
Slide 12\
We work open to invite people in to participate\
\
Slide 13\
The point of our gigantic Scrum board at Mozfest was not to get people to make stuff for us, it was to get people to collaborate.\
Webmaker Training wants to model behaviors\
\
Slide 14\
Blended training dream\
Curricula for openness and is participatory\
\
Slide 15\
Our training program is grounded in the idea that if we model the behaviors we want to see,  we will influence the behaviors of others. \
Conversation, not lecture\
Behavior reflects value\
\
Slide 16\
We all need accolades, we all want to be better versions of ourselves\
Humans are afraid to be themselves\
Encouraging community by being participatory\
The way you participate in the world says something about your values. \
\
Slide 17 \
Hierarchies\
\
Slide 18\
I think designing and using participatory methods is mostly about opening the door for people. Help people see what it means to have agency. \
Work in the open\
\
Slide 19, enough of me talking.}