{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 OpenSans;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280

\f0\b\fs20 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Why do you want to attend Web of Change?* \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sl288\slmult1\sa158\pardirnatural\qj

\b0 \cf0 A colleague at Greenpeace sent me an email that I would love to be at Web of Change. He said his participation in your community has been an incredible experience. So I went to your website because that's what people do when someone they respect says, "You would like this". It was the video that most excited me at the idea of coming to Web of Change. In particular, Christine Cordero talking about how reinvigorating Web of Change was for her. I've been working in the space between social justice and technology my entire career. For the last year or so I've felt myself struggling to believe. I feel like hope is hidden. The media, the masses, the state of the world \'96 despite the facts that we're living in the most peaceful time, that people are happier now than they've ever been, that infant mortality rates are down, that we\'92re healthier, happier \'96 despite these things, I feel like the work we do has become harder, more complicated and more dangerous. I want to attend the Web of Change to meet the people who will make me feel the way that Christine felt at the end of the event. Maybe I can inspire people I meet in some way. Meeting passionate people, sharing ideas and exploring the space between social change, technology and learning sounds like an excellent use of my time.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280

\b \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Where do you find/create community, and how do those communities ground you and/or hold you accountable? This can include activist communities, sports clubs, neighborhood groups etc?*\

\b0 \
I\'92ve found numerous communities online and through my work with open source. The space I\'92ve worked in as allowed me to serve as a bridge between technology and many other kinds of communities. Open communities are the ones that ground me the most. I feel accountable to the greater open community (which includes smaller communities) because it\'92s helped me carve out my identity. My participation in open source helped me understand myself in a way I can\'92t fully explain in an online text area. I am open. I\'92m an advocate for open practices, an expert on participatory methodologies, an idealist who believes that \'93openness\'94 is personal and professional development rolled into a supportive community of crazy innovators. It is lifelong learning, a curiosity and a joy embodied in a diverse and disperse group of people. The open community is welcoming and thus serves as a touchstone for all of the other communities I\'92m a part of. Among the Greenpeace community, the introduction of open practices is creating equity among staff and volunteers. In my local sports club, transparency and decentralization has helped my team advance into the national league. My neighborhood non-profit has adopted an open policy for the shared garden the community built. Helping other people understand open practices is also at the heart of the educational technology co-operative I\'92m a part of.\
\

\b Tell us something unique about yourself.* \

\b0 Where should I begin? Isn\'92t it an inherent trait of creative people that they feel like they are unique in a thousand different ways? Isn\'92t it part of the human condition to need to be unique? Shall I pick something completely randomly? Ok \'96 the sports league I mentioned in the last question \'96 I play roller derby in the German National League (Bundesliga). If you\'92ve never heard of Roller Derby, it\'92s commonly referred to as \'93rugby on roller skates\'94.  Playing in the German National League sounds impressive and roller derby IS the fastest growing sport in Europe. BUT it doesn\'92t feel like a big deal. It\'92s practice a few times a week and 5 official bouts (games) a year, plus scrimmages for fun. For me it\'92s more a study in group dynamics.
\b \

\b0 \

\b What is something that you\'92d like to share with the community? A talent or skill? Testimony from a campaign? Connections to a community? A workshop? Other?* \

\b0 The stuff I love always has a place if you\'92d like me to run a skills workshop. Really, I\'92m happy to help in any capacity you see fit. I often run sessions on designing for participation, open practices, distributed leadership, wholehearted activism, tricks, tools for establishing openness. In short - I\'92ll be pleased to be an active participant, share what I know and soak up the knowledge other people are willing to share.
\b \

\b0 \

\b Web of Change is, in our best moments, a community that seeks to fully see and value every participant in the ways that they want and need to show up in the WOC space. How would you want the WOC community to 'see' you in this space (including but not limited to personal identity, family background, cultural identity, political identity, etc.)?* \

\b0 This question stumps me. I want to be an open book, but my cultural and social conditioning makes this a challenge. I swing extrovert in social situations. I may come off as excited, talkative. I guess I\'92d like people to \'93see\'94 that no matter how open I may appear, without knowing my past, my experiences, the things that have coalesced to create the \'93me in this exact moment\'94 it\'92s impossible to fully understand someone. I guess I want people to see me for who I am, a complex, multi-layered individual. I try to do this for other people as well. Let\'92s see each other with empathy.
\b \

\b0 \

\b What is the best campaign you participated in this year and why? Or what is the best campaign you\'92ve seen in the last year and why?* \

\b0 Another difficult question! There are lots of campaigns that are inspiring and a bunch of different ways to define \'93the best\'94. I\'92ll just choose one that stuck. This year Mozilla released a campaign designed to help people understand why encryption is important. They aimed to give people basic skills to protect themselves online. I didn\'92t have anything to do with it, but the way my former colleagues built teaching and learning materials around a massively important, but seemingly complicated theme was inspiring. They simplified encryption for \'93any one\'94, had pretty graphics, used humor. I also think this is an important theme for every one, especially those working in activism. 
\b \

\b0 \

\b Is there anything else you\'92d like to share about yourself?* \

\b0 Not at the moment, but if I\'92m invited, I\'92ll look forward to creating those deep relationships past participants talked about in your testimonials.\
\

\b How did you hear about Web of Change? If it was through a friend \'97 which friend?* \

\b0 \

\b Scholarships are available as we want successful applicants to be able to attend, regardless of their ability to pay. Do you require financial support to attend Web of Change?\

\b0 \

\b Full participation and active presence at Web of Change is critical for deep relationships and trust to emerge. Can you commit to attending all days of the conference?\
}