{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Culture Shifts towards Open and the influence of Social Norms\
\
As we move towards more people-powered, innovative and technology-supportive management structures, we need to think more strategically about ways to engender cultures of openness. This presentation will draw on the research literature around embedding cultures of openness, as well as the presenters experience in a variety of educational institutions and multi-national organisations such as Mozilla and Greenpeace. Laura will define culture as a shared space and "the prevailing beliefs, values, and customs of a group" (The Culture Group, 2013). She will unpick this, investigating and discussing what people 
\i do
\i0  in that shared space. This will include: (i) identifying that prevailing mindsets and values influences a group's way of being, (ii) explaining how observing the ways people share both physical and digital spaces allows us to determine the practices that make up a culture, and (iii) showing how a cultural shift towards open starts with understanding these practices and gently implementing open techniques to improve efficiency, productivity, creativity and innovation.\'a0\
\
As open practices are "the antithesis of traditional organizational management structures" (Hilliger, 2015), success is achieved instead by a focus on the values and mission statement of the\'a0 organisation (Whitehurst, 2015). Laura believes teaching, learning and research to be at the forefront of implementing cultural shifts. Social and cultural perspectives stem from individual backgrounds, so it is crucial to include professional development and technical training around the definition of "open" for open source methodologies to proliferate. In complicated and fast-moving global\'a0networks, strategies must take into account existing infrastructures\'a0and subcultures. Organisations can institute teaching and learning initiatives that support the transition towards open by using these structures, engaging individually with subcultures, working with allies and modeling behaviors.\'a0\
\
This session will provide insight into the kinds of participatory programming and facilitation that has led to successful cultural change in various organisations. It will look at a certain set of behaviors that spur cultural shift at individual levels. Laura will talk about different levels of openness, both for individuals and organisations. Laura will examine the social and cultural norms that make open implementation more or less difficult, and explore leadership competencies whose practice leads to gaining merit in a meritocracy. \
\
In short, Laura will provide insight into the social and cultural norms that make the transition to an open organization difficult. She will explore the emotional and social side of open community building. She will offer strategies and mindsets to help people and organisations flourish by learning to modify their behaviors and practices based on the nuance of culture and subcultures.\
\
\
\
\
References\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Booth, D.R. (2010). Peer Participation and Software: What Mozilla Has to Teach\'a0 Government. The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation\'a0 Reports on Digital Media and Learning. MIT Press.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Culture Group, The. (2013). Making Waves: A Guide to Cultural Strategy. The Culture Group. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://revolutionsperminute.net/wp-content/uploads/2015/05/Making-Waves-The-Culture-Group.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 http://revolutionsperminute.net/wp-content/uploads/2015/05/Making-Waves-The-Culture-Group.pdf}}\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Hilliger, L. (2015). Your field's talent is expecting openness. Opensource.com. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://opensource.com/open-organization/15/9/your-talent-expecting-openness"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://opensource.com/open-organization/15/9/your-talent-expecting-openness}}\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Peter, S., & Deimann, M. (2013). On the role of openness in education: A historical reconstruction. 
\i Open Praxis
\i0 , 
\i 5
\i0 (1), 7-14.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280
\ls5\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Whitehurst, J. (2015). The Open Organization: Igniting Passion and Performance. Harvard Business Review Press.\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf0 \
\
\
Laura's work has centered in helping people learn open practices, developing leaders and modeling the open attitude. In a traditionally secretive organizations like Greenpeace, helping people transition requires empathy, understanding and patience.\'a0Even in fully open organizations like Mozilla, maintaining an open attitude can be tricky. Laura will provide insight into the social and cultural norms that make the transition to an open organization difficult. She will explore the emotional and social side of open community building, and the leadership traits management should develop. She will offer strategies and mindsets to help people and organisations flourish by learning to modify their behaviors and practices based on the nuance of culture and subcultures.}