{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue10;\red26\green26\blue26;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Jim Whitehurst\'92s Speech from Agile day
\b0 \
\
I often have the pleasure of traveling around the world and there is one thing I\'92ve noticed. One thing that has become starkly clear over the last couple of years, that everyone is starting to realize the real impact of performance of IT is about developing faster. If you look at the typical IT department, about 20-25% of an IT shop\'92s cost is hardware and software; the cost is not the underlying infrastructure it\'92s the cost of developing and managing the applications that sit on top of that. Things like Containers, agile and DevOps have the ability to triple the productivity of and IT department whilst infrastructure had an increase in the cost of the company. \'a0\cf2 \
\
\cf0 I want to focus on contextualizing what we are trying to achieve outside of IT. As we think about accelerating innovation and IT, it\'92s a specific use case of a much broader challenge. We are moving from an economy\'a0that was primarily based around industrial revolution, which is all about efficiency, to an much more commoditized driven society. \cf2 \
\
\cf0 Ask yourself the question, \'91how do we think about getting things done? Driving efficiency to create value or driving innovation to create value?\'92 It\'92s an incredibly hard problem broadly. A lot of it has to do with management and implementation.\
The way we organize is called management. Many scholars believe the concept of management is a 21st century solution. Traditional management was developed under the context where people were relatively uneducated doing specific jobs in a static and latent information environment. It\'92s an engineering problem. How would you coordinate this behavior to solve this problem? Trying to get uneducated people to accomplish road tasks is how the traditional management structure came about. \cf3 \'a0Today, we\'92re dealing with relatively educated, certainly worldly people given you increasing levels of education and access information Internet etc.\cf0 \
\
Today, most road tasks have been automated. Basically in a world that the tasks that remain are judgment calls all the way up to creativity by people. It shouldn't be surprising that these engineering solutions are used to coordinate people\'92s behavior\cf3  when the objective function is different, the type of people you're measuring and managing are different their education context during the ability to actually communicate different. If you know anything about engineering, you know that the answer to that problem probably looks different in comparison to the engineering problem to the industrial world. Most of us still live in that context of a traditional management structure. Even though we're moving from an IT contact with 75% about efficiency, and 25% innovation (I think 90% efficiency 10% innovation) roadwork innovations are taking center stage and that\'92s how we want to think about managing. You see this every day in an IT context, because it's not the same thing, it's not about how many of you are engineering the corporation it\'92s about how you take variants out. All those things that we did in IT in the early 90s to mid 90s to drive efficiency right all about efficiency what now this is not that you don't need an ERP system is just that is not where value is being created today it's about how do we innovate how do we add your functionality more quickly how do we more quickly respond to competitive environment will quickly change to recognize changes in marketplace respond to customers more quickly right now the value is not the dollars yet spent, The value is around how you innovate more quickly. \
\
It\'92s not all about tools and technology, which are key part of the problem, but I just want to emphasize upfront, you can say agile or DevOps or whatever, a faster pace of development is not just about the tools. Obviously the tools are an important piece but culture process mindset, I would argue, give even more important discussions, and recognize. The good news out of this is people have to recognize the problem before it happens, and TIOs recognize the problem before it happens. \
\
It really is something that we all need to recognize, and be champions of. The problem with computers is they do what you say, not what you mean. IT is very similar. IT is also on the front wave of something that is more broadly impacting the industry when we\'92re going from a world about efficiency to a world about innovation. So many of the principals about process mindset culture, will ultimately be the same processes that will impact company\'92s ability to do this. \cf2 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf3 How did I get here?
\b0 \
I am the frog thrown into boiling water. What I mean by that is I think I fully recognize that there is a need for change in a different way because I got the gift of coming from running a very traditional company. I was COO of delta airlines, where everything was very military rigorous. So, when I was brought into Red Hat I thought this was total chaos, obviously I was there to clean things up considering there was no processing system in place before. Sometime I would bring things to the table and would get shut down and told that it was a bad idea. But I\'92m lucky, because before I had the chance to change Red Hat, Red Hat changed me. Being the frog that jumped into the boiling water, I\'92ve had invaluable experiences enough to write a book, called \'93The Open Organization\'94. It\'92s not about what I\'92ve done; it\'92s about what I\'92ve learned. To some extent Red Hat as an organization took these principles and made a company out of that and really aligns with the open source model, and open organization structure. \
\
Engaging and being participative are the fundamental principles of the next generation organizational model. We all need to think of our organizations as people who choose to be there, it\'92s participative. That mental mindset as a leader changes the concept of the \'93employee contract\'94. \cf2 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 Let\'92s think about this. Let\'92s talk about contextualizing the framework and then I'll quickly talk to some of the components. Looking back at the biggest constraint around or problems with the traditional model of management is that it develops kind of in the late 1800s early 1900s, about the same time as economics. The reason I bring up a parallel is there a bunch of social sciences that were social studies before that and we decided to apply the scientific method to them. Economics is probably the classic example. So when we think about economics is the science and apply the scientific method that we had to make some assumptions to make the math work. Taking a class for microeconomics upward sloping supply curve, downward sloping demand curve and this assumes everybody's totally rational, perfect information, and markets are always in equilibrium. Anybody who lived between 2007 and 1987 we all know that markets are always in equilibrium and we absolutely no people are always rational. If we were all rational we would save exactly how much money we should save so we can retire exactly when we want to and we would always weigh exactly what we want to weigh, because what we eat would be rational. And now there's a whole department called behavioral economics. Behavioral economics is very much how do you recognize and measure the fact that people aren\'92t always rational and similar imperfections that some people might have. A fascinating book on this called Freakonomics dives into the fact that there is no generalized theory of behavior. \
\
There\'92s a lot we can do to recognize and use the fact that people are irrational in similar ways. This how we help people with things like insurance, public policy, spending and saving etc. The same thing is true in management. What we are noticing is that when you recognize people are emotional beings, with a purpose, and can be inspired, basically the theory of management changes pretty dramatically. This is not some new generalized theory of management, but it is a set of lessons learned from what Red Hat\'92s done. \cf2 \
\
\cf3 Some principles for running and effective business that are applicable to many other organizations include, what, why, and how. The what, a budget, and the why, the paycheck, determine traditional organizations. More effective organizations are run the other way around, starting with the why. \'a0People want to be treated fairly and there\'92s study after study after study that if you don\'92t treat people fairly, they won\'92t perform well. If you pay people fairly, beyond that most people are much more interested in a broader meaning for what they're doing and how they're having an impact on society and the world around them. They are getting an even larger bonus and really providing the context of what and how they\'92re making a difference. \cf2 \
\
\cf3 Thinking about what is the purpose of the organization. The \'91how\'92 in a traditional organization can be viewed as that people do what they are supposed to do. We often know people don't do exactly what they're supposed to do nor to people necessarily always have productive dialogue and that's. Second on that is a critical thing that we all need to recognize in order to innovate. You need a productive constructive dialogue to get to the right answers and get there effectively. \'a0Leaders can be much more of a catalyst when they are \cf2 \
\
\cf3 At Red Hat we are so passionate that some of our employees have the logo tattooed on them. It\'92s crazy but we really do believe deeply in the mission of the company, which is around open-source and how the training of software is developed and consumed. For each of you, your companies have a mission. There is a purpose. I think that a company that in business if its not creating value at some level for their customers. Your job is to make sure your employee activities are connected back to that mission. \'a0An elite change in performance just making sure that people understand that what they are doing and how accelerating products or services fits into that broader mission. It makes a huge difference.\cf2 \
\
\cf3 Engagement is something I\'92m amazed of how few organizations take this into consideration. It\'92s imperative for how you're going to accelerate innovation in your organization. What I mean by engagement is making sure that the people in your organization understand the strategy of the company and very specifically, how your organization fits into it. Why are you delivering faster, what does that mean and how does it fit into the overall hold of the company. \cf2 \
\
\cf3 Quick story from when I was at Delta and I had the experience of dealing with bankruptcy restructuring, which was a very very difficult time. One of the things that happened during the bankruptcy was we went out and spent a lot of time talking about the details of the turnaround to our front-line employees and one of the things we said was on-time performance is critical. We have to run quality operation during this bankruptcy time, to assure customers that were not going away. We told our employees that is the single one thing that you can do to help Delta's turnaround. Delta went from dead last to number one for on-time performance among the major carriers and healthy consistently for the next couple years. All we did was tell everyone it was important, and deeply talk about the strategy of the company and how to align with the broader impact. Making sure people deeply understand why what they're doing is important especially, about agile and data, and about the importance of accelerating the pace of innovation and how incredibly important it can be to corporate strategy and the overall success of the company is your job to make that link. It's that's a multilevel link that most people are not going to make if you don't really spend time and think about the stories you\'92re going to tell. That is the leaders that are driving that accelerated innovation and connecting to the overall success of the company.\
\
Next is the \'91how\'92, that basically people are currently rational beings how people work together. We know that the single biggest kind of areas where companies fall apart is around culture and people not working productively together. We all know from managing that is absolutely critical is the company. My third week at Red Hat I had a meeting about virtualization. It was about why we chose and the dynamics around it. At some point an engineer the meeting says what we're doing is the wrong approach. Things go a little heated as always and people were yelling, yet everybody walked out feeling good about the meeting. I was sitting here thinking, you know at Delta if someone yelled in front of their boss and their bosses boss and their bosses boss\'92s boss, it would have been completely wrong and that person would've been fired before the meeting was over. Being able to have those types of productive conversations is critical to success in any type of conversation. Managing and having the right level of dialogue is critical to success especially think about something like where you're going have to work cross functionally having productive conflict to get the right answers, is actually critical. \cf2 \
\
\cf3 If there's more honesty at the water cooler than there is in the conference rooms, then you have a problem. This true especially when thinking about cross functional teams to make sure the right dialogue is coming out and you\'92re having the right constructive conflict to get the right answers. Yeah, there's a concept that we all use called brainstorming. Brainstorming was developed in the 1950s it an ad agency in New York to encourage people give ideas and a lot of positive feedback years starting in 1960s. There's a ton of academic evidence all the way to today said brainstorming is a terrible way to get the best ideas. The best way to get ideas is to encourage people to give ideas but be honest when there is a bad idea, but when we think about combining with this or try again having that kind of constructive dialogue. This strategy is having much much better. I know it's messy because it's people and it's often personally hard to make sure that you're having the right sets of dialogs. Ultimately, I would argue, it\'92s much more important to have the dialogue than the tools as you start thinking about how was your get it innovate faster develop more quickly. \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 I began to wonder, what is the role leader in these organizations? So, as leader at Red Hat I saw this kind of self-organizing group of very bright people. \
I started to ask myself these questions and answer came to me based on something we did in my first year at Red Hat. We talked about the fact that Red Hat a vision around changing the way software developed and consumed in open-source and democratizing information content etc. Which is very high-level breath of a goal but we didn't have a mission statement at all. So what are we doing a what is our mission will let's get in Red Hat terms anybody want to be involved together to talk about that. So we did a lot of work around that we came up with the first draft kind of an alpha draft which was Red Hat mission is to be the leader in communities of customers triggers, and partners will better technology the open source way. So the first part to be the catalyst for the first was to be the leader in the back and said that's wrong, we don't have a leadership role in these communities. \'a0So, we rewrote a beta draft a few weeks later, and we got a bunch people together. It was to be an active participant in communities. The same as the original feedback, that it\'92s not right either because that implies that were passively. Where there by the fact that we contribute we can try direction of organizations are or of communities that were involved and been sometimes leaders have to make quick decisions have to make hard decisions. They'll have time to fully synthesize this but on our best days when we I truly do my job I try to create the context in which the best decisions a bird so areas like how do we get more customer focused as we grow and our portfolio expands. I didn't hire some consultant or do some top down here is what we need to do, I just do it out of the company saying we need to think about it, it's important when you think about it, and people rose up. Our customer service organization freed up some of our people\'92s time to do outbound calling to customers that don't have problems, by the way it is the most bizarre conversation, to call up your customer who never called or had a complaint. We also added to our plug-ins, as a person freed up some time added to our product is the proactive diagnostics. So, basically if you try the Red Hat enterprise Linux it'll actually compare your existing infrastructure to our tens of thousands of new cases, and say which areas that might get disabled or that may not be stable over time. Many things that happen around the company not because I ordered it, not because I planned it, not because I read a product around it, because I said it was important and that's the essence of really thinking about how you put structures in place with things that you want to happen. \cf2 \
\
\cf3 Finishing up again on the implications for innovation, this I would actually argue is one of the single biggest challenges we're going to have as organizations. I think it will ultimately impact society and that's very simply the largest wealth creation for everyone that we've ever seen happen. After 1871 we figured out mass manufacturing and we figured out how to be more efficient making stuff for people and it pulled the majority of the world out of subsistence to middle-class. This created an enormous wealth of institution and other types of advancement. We figured out how to produce things more efficiently. We are now entering a world where we've developed world in overtime it is not about more stuff, it's about how we make that's used that stuff more efficiently. We can't know only multiple cars or this or that but how we actually use things more efficiently, how we innovate is going to be the next driver in value for creation for our organization often on a collective basis for society. It's going to be about how we innovate and figure out how our organizations can move more quickly to solve massive problems that we have. That comes down to tools, certainly in IT about tools but its processes mindset. Focusing on the next-generation way of how we all work together to solve big big big problems are happening in the world. We\'92re still in the relatively I would say early innings of this. I think I will talk to a piece of the other people that you are all working on in your own organizations on how to explore a innovation will be synthesized and people will figure out how to do that even better as we all continue to work forward, but is not just about delivering a more specific feature on your website. This ultimately is going to come down to how we innovate more quickly to solve a lot of problems and a lot of experimentation is going to need to continue to happen. It is a massive challenge but a massive opportunity and the faster we figure these things out, the better off you are children will be. Back to technology, this really does come down to how it's not about any one organization, it is not about proscribing it's about how coalitions and\'a0groups of us can work together to solve these problems and is kind of fundamentally advancing. Red Hat does what we believe in through our open organization mission. }