{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Negotiating for Open\
\
From contract negotiation to deployment, we will explore open decision and design frameworks to help you and your organization establish relationships that can achieve global impacts. 
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0 \cf2 User-driven and community-based design projects are impactful and fulfilling. In the redesign of Greenpeace.org the use of the Open Decision Framework, the Open Design Kit and community collaboration is of highest importance. In this session, Laura would like to share her experiences bringing open practices to Greenpeace and help participants bring more openness into their teams or organizations. Participants can bring their ideas, their businesses, their strategic directions, and Laura will help them set up structures and processes that invite people in. She\'92ll give advice, talk through issues and create a working atmosphere that helps people solve real world problems.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\b\fs24 \cf2 Title: High Functioning Teams
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0 \cf2 Type: instructor led workshop
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0 \cf2 Abstract: If you want to have a high functioning team, you have to understand and interact with a variety of personality types. Managing group and team dynamics is an essential part of every job. In this fun and participatory lab, we\'92ll explore and get to know 8 common types of team members. We\'92ll discuss their merits and think about how our own emotional awareness can help us navigate common conflicts and problems. 
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0 \cf2 Open leaders take the time to encourage, help, and inspire people around them. Helping people \'a0grow (and growing because of them) are ways to ensure constant innovation and collective improvement. 
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0 \cf2 1 sentence: High functioning teams use flexible leadership models and have emotionally intelligent team members. This lab will pick apart emotional awareness and help participants understand how they influence their surroundings.
\f1 \
}